# Effect of ${\mathrm{F}}^{−}$ on Mn dissolution from ${\mathrm{Li}}_{2}{\mathrm{MnO}}_{3}\phantom{\rule{0.16em}{0ex}}(0\overline{1}0)$ in solution: Solvation effects and electronic origin

## ${\ mathrm{F }}^{ −}$ 对Mn从 ${\ mathrm{Li }}_{ 2 }{\ mathrm{MnO }}_{ 3}\ phantom{\ rule{0.16em}{0ex}}(0 \ overline{1}0)$ 在溶液中的溶解效应和电子起源的影响

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.195127

Author(s): Tamotsu Hashimoto, Hiroshi Nakano, Hisao Nakamura, and Takehide Miyazaki<br /><p>We studied the Mn ion dissolution mechanism from the $(0\overline{1}0)$ surface of ${\mathrm{Li}}_{2}{\mathrm{MnO}}_{3}$ using the reference interaction site method coupled with the effective screening medium method in density functional theory. We found that the solvation of ${\mathrm{F}}^{−}$ ions…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 195127] Published Tue Nov 12, 2024


---
# Erratum: Constructing semilocal approximations for noncollinear spin density functional theory featuring exchange-correlation torques [Phys. Rev. B <b>107</b>, 165111 (2023)]

## 勘误: 构造具有交换相关力矩的非共线自旋密度泛函理论的半位置近似 [Phys. Rev. B &lt;b&gt;107&lt;/b&gt;，165111 (2023)]

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.110.199902

Author(s): Nicolas Tancogne-Dejean, Angel Rubio, and Carsten A. Ullrich<br />[Phys. Rev. B 110, 199902] Published Tue Nov 12, 2024


---
# Quantum Calculations of Hydrogen Absorption and Diffusivity in Bulk $\mathrm{CeO_2}$

## 块体中氢吸收和扩散系数的量子计算 $ \ mathrm{CeO_2}$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06536

arXiv:2411.06536v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: CeO$_2$ (ceria) is an attractive material for heterogeneous catalysis applications involving hydrogen due to its favorable redox activity combined with its relative impermeability to hydrogen ions and molecules. However, to date, many bulk ceria/hydrogen properties remain unresolved in part due to a scarcity of experimental data combined with quantum calculation results that vary according to the approach used. In this regard, we have conducted a series of Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations utilizing generalized gradient (GGA), meta-GGA, and hybrid functionals as well as several corrections for electronic correlations, applied to a number of properties regarding hydrogen in bulk stoichiometic $\mathrm{CeO_2}$. Our calculations place reasonable bounds on the lattice constants, band gaps, hydrogen absorption energies, and O-H bond vibrational frequencies that can be determined by DFT. In addition, our results indicate that the activation energy barriers for hydrogen bulk diffusion are uniformly low ($ < 0.15 \ \mathrm{eV} $) for the calculation parameters probed here and that, in general, the effect of hydrogen tunneling is small at ambient temperatures. Our study provides a recipe to determine fundamental physical chemical properties of Ce-O-H interactions while also determining realistic ranges for diffusion kinetics. This can facilitate the determination of future coarse-grained models that will be able to guide and elucidate experimental efforts in this area.


---
# Calculations of Spin Fluctuation Spectral Functions $\alpha^{2}F$ in High-Temperature Superconducting Cuprates

## 高温超导铜酸盐中自旋涨落谱函数 $ \ alpha ^{2}F $ 的计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06537

arXiv:2411.06537v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin fluctuations have been proposed as a key mechanism for mediating superconductivity, particularly in high-temperature superconducting cuprates, where conventional electron-phonon interactions alone cannot account for the observed critical temperatures. Traditionally, their role has been analyzed through tight-binding based model Hamiltonians. In this work we present a method that combines density functional theory with a momentum- and frequency-dependent pairing interaction derived from the Fluctuation Exchange (FLEX) type Random Phase Approximation (FLEX-RPA) to compute Eliashberg spectral functions $\alpha ^{2}F(\omega )$ which are central to spin fluctuation theory of superconductivity. We apply our numerical procedure to study a series of cuprates where our extracted material specific $\alpha ^{2}F(\omega )$ are found to exhibit remarkable similarities characterized by a sharp peak in the vicinity of 40-60 meV and their rapid decay at higher frequencies. Our exact diagonalization of a linearized BCS gap equation extracts superconducting energy gap functions for realistic Fermi surfaces of the cuprates and predicts their symmetry to be $d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}$ in all studied systems. Via a variation of on-site Coulomb repulsion $U$ for the copper $d$-electrons we show that that the range of the experimental values of $T_{c}$ can be reproduced in this approach but is extremely sensitive to the proximity of the spin density wave instability. These data highlight challenges in building first-principle theories of high temperature superconductivity but offer new insights beyond previous treatments, such as the confirmation of the usability of approximate BCS-like $T_{c}$ equations, together with the evaluations of the material specific coupling constant $\lambda $ without reliance on tight-binding approximations of their electronic structures.


---
# Multifunctional spintronic transistors: Sub-60 mV/dec switching, non-local GMR, and NDR in spin gapless semiconductor and/or spin gapped metal FETs

## 多功能自旋电子晶体管: 自旋无间隙半导体和/或自旋间隙金属fet中的低于60 mV/12月开关，非局部GMR和NDR

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07216

arXiv:2411.07216v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Spin-gapless semiconductors (SGSs) are a promising class of materials for spintronic applications, enabling functions beyond conventional electronics. This study introduces a novel design for multifunctional spintronic field-effect transistors (FETs) using SGSs and/or spin-gapped metals (SGMs) as source and drain electrodes. These devices operate similarly to metal-semiconductor Schottky barrier FETs, where a potential barrier forms between the SGS (or SGM) electrode and the semiconducting channel. Unlike traditional Schottky barrier FETs, these devices utilize the unique spin-dependent transport properties of SGS/SGM electrodes to achieve sub-60 mV/dec switching, overcoming the 60 mV/dec sub-threshold swing limit in MOSFETs for low-voltage operation. Additionally, SGMs contribute a negative differential resistance (NDR) effect with an ultra-high peak-to-valley current ratio. The proposed spintronic FETs combine sub-60 mV/dec switching, non-local giant magnetoresistance (GMR), and NDR, making them suitable for applications like logic-in-memory computing and multivalued logic. These properties support computing architectures beyond the von-Neumann model, enabling efficient data processing. Two-dimensional (2D) nanomaterials provide a promising platform for these multifunctional FETs. We screen a computational 2D materials database to identify suitable SGS and SGM materials, selecting VS$2$ as the SGS for simulations. Using a non-equilibrium Green's function method with density functional theory, we simulate transfer ($I{\mathrm{D}}$-$V_{\mathrm{G}}$) and output ($I_{\mathrm{D}}$-$V_{\mathrm{D}}$) characteristics of a VS$_2$/Ga$_2$O$_2$ FET based on 2D type-II SGS VS$_2$, predicting a sub-threshold swing of 20 mV/dec, a high on/off ratio of 10$^8$, and a notable non-local GMR effect, demonstrating potential for low-power, high-performance applications.


---
# Glucose Sensing Using Pristine and Co-doped Hematite Fiber-Optic sensors: Experimental and DFT Analysis

## 使用原始和共掺杂的赤铁矿光纤传感器进行葡萄糖传感: 实验和DFT分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06130

arXiv:2411.06130v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Glucose monitoring plays a critical role in managing diabetes, one of the most prevalent diseases globally. The development of fast-responsive, cost-effective, and biocompatible glucose sensors is essential for improving patient care. In this study, a comparative analysis is conducted between pristine and Co-doped hematite samples, synthesized via the hydrothermal method, to evaluate their structural, morphological, and optical properties. The glucose sensing performance of both samples is assessed using a fiber-optic evanescent wave (FOEW) setup. While the sensitivity remains comparable for both pristine and Co-doped hematite, a reduction in the Limit of Detection (LoD) is observed in the Co-doped sample, suggesting enhanced interactions with glucose molecules at the surface. To gain further insights into the glucose adsorption mechanisms, Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations are performed, revealing key details regarding charge transfer, electronic delocalization, and glucose binding on the hematite surfaces. These findings highlight the potential of Co-doped hematite for advanced glucose sensing applications, offering a valuable synergy between experimental and theoretical approaches for further exploration in biosensing technologies.


---
# Impacts of Point Defects on Shallow Doping in Cubic Boron Arsenide: A First Principles Study

## 点缺陷对立方硼砷浅掺杂影响的第一性原理研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09013

arXiv:2403.09013v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Cubic boron arsenide (BAs) stands out as a promising material for advanced electronics, thanks to its exceptional thermal conductivity and ambipolar mobility. However, effective control of p- and n-type doping in BAs poses a significant challenge, mostly as a result of the influence of defects. In the present study, we employed density functional theory (DFT) to explore the impacts of the common point defects and impurities on p-type doping of Be$_\text{B}$ and Si$_\text{As}$, and on n-type doping of Si$_\text{B}$ and Se$_\text{As}$. We found that the most favorable point defects formed by C, O, and Si are C$_\text{As}$, O$_\text{B}$O$_\text{As}$, Si$_\text{As}$, C$_\text{As}$Si$_\text{B}$, and O$_\text{B}$Si$_\text{As}$, which have formation energies of less than $1.5$ eV. While the O impurity detrimentally affects both n- and p-type dopings, C and Si impurities are harmful for n-type dopings. Interestingly, the antisite defect pair As$_\text{B}$B$_\text{As}$ benefits both p- and n-type doping. The doping limitation analysis presented in this study can potentially pave the way for strategic development in the area of BAs-based electronics.


---
# Stability-superconductivity map for compressed Na-intercalated graphite

## 压缩Na插层石墨的稳定性-超导图

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16056

arXiv:2407.16056v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A recent ab initio investigation of Na-C binary compounds under moderate pressures has uncovered a possible stable NaC$_4$ superconductor with an estimated critical temperature up to 41K. We revisit this promising binary system by performing a more focused exploration of Na-intercalated graphite configurations, assessing the sensitivity of their thermodynamic stability to density functional approximations at different (T,P) conditions, and examining their superconducting properties with the anisotropic Migdal-Eliashberg formalism. The combinatorial screening of possible Na arrangements reveals additional stable stoichiometries, i.e., Na$_3$C$_{10}$, NaC$_8$, NaC$_{10}$, and NaC$_{12}$, that redefine the previously proposed convex hulls for pressures up to 10 GPa. The evaluation of formation enthalpies with different van der Waals functionals indicates that the proposed compounds might not be thermodynamically stable at zero temperature but some of them could stabilize due to the vibrational entropy or form via cold compression if graphite is used as a starting material. Our more rigorous modeling of the electron-phonon coupling in NaC$_4$ confirms the material's potential for high-temperature superconductivity, with a critical temperature reaching 48 K at 10 GPa, and reveals a well-defined two-gap structure unusual for an electron-doped compound. By tracking the position of the intercalant nearly free electron states with respect to the Fermi level in viable Na-C compounds, we map out the range of pressures and compositions needed for strong electron-phonon coupling and identify Na$_3$C$_{10}$ as an equally promising superconductor.


---
# Creation of an Fe$_3$P Schreibersite Density Functional Tight Binding Model for Astrobiological Simulations

## 用于天体生物学模拟的Fe $_3 $ P Schreibersite密度泛函紧密结合模型的创建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01884

arXiv:2409.01884v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The mineral schreibersite, e.g., Fe$_3$P, is commonly found in iron-rich meteorites and could have served as an abiotic phosphorus source for prebiotic chemistry. However, atomistic calculations of its degradation chemistry generally require quantum simulation approaches, which can be too computationally cumbersome to study sufficient time and length scales for this process. In this regard, we have created a computationally efficient semi-empirical quantum Density Functional Tight Binding (DFTB) model for iron and phosphorus-containing materials by adopting an existing semi-automated workflow that represents many-body interactions by linear combinations of Chebyshev polynomials. We have utilized a relatively small training set to optimize a DFTB model that is accurate for schreibersite physical and chemical properties, including its bulk properties, surface energies, and water absorption. We then show that our model shows strong transferability to several iron phosphide solids as well as multiple allotropes of iron metal. Our resulting DFTB parameterization will allow us to interrogate schreibersite aqueous decomposition at longer time and length scales than standard quantum approaches, allowing for investigations of its role in prebiotic chemistry on early Earth.


---
# Glucose Sensing Using Pristine and Co-doped Hematite Fiber-Optic sensors: Experimental and DFT Analysis

## 使用原始和共掺杂的赤铁矿光纤传感器进行葡萄糖传感: 实验和DFT分析

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06130

arXiv:2411.06130v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Glucose monitoring plays a critical role in managing diabetes, one of the most prevalent diseases globally. The development of fast-responsive, cost-effective, and biocompatible glucose sensors is essential for improving patient care. In this study, a comparative analysis is conducted between pristine and Co-doped hematite samples, synthesized via the hydrothermal method, to evaluate their structural, morphological, and optical properties. The glucose sensing performance of both samples is assessed using a fiber-optic evanescent wave (FOEW) setup. While the sensitivity remains comparable for both pristine and Co-doped hematite, a reduction in the Limit of Detection (LoD) is observed in the Co-doped sample, suggesting enhanced interactions with glucose molecules at the surface. To gain further insights into the glucose adsorption mechanisms, Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations are performed, revealing key details regarding charge transfer, electronic delocalization, and glucose binding on the hematite surfaces. These findings highlight the potential of Co-doped hematite for advanced glucose sensing applications, offering a valuable synergy between experimental and theoretical approaches for further exploration in biosensing technologies.


---
# Organic compounds in metallic hydrogen

## 金属氢中的有机化合物

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21772

arXiv:2410.21772v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Metallic hydrogen is the most common condensed material in the universe, comprising the centre of gas giant planets. However, experimental studies are extremely challenging, and most of our understanding of this material has been led by theory. Chemistry in this environment has not been probed experimentally, so here we examine hydrocarbon chemistry in metallic hydrogen using density functional theory calculations. We find that carbon and oxygen react with metallic hydrogen to produce an entirely new type of hydrocarbon chemistry based on sixfold coordinated carbon with organic-style molecules CH6, C2H8, C3H10 OH3 NH4 and CH4OH. These are charged molecules stabilised by the metallic environment. Their associated electric fields are screened, giving oscillation in the surrounding electron and proton densities. In view of the excess hydrogen we refer to them as hypermethane, hyperethane etc. The relationship to traditional chemistry is that the metallic background acts as an electron donor and stabilizes negatively charged ions. This enables the formation of six covalent bonds per carbon atom, or three per oxygen atom. This demonstrates that organic chemistry may take place in very different environments from those found on earth, and may be common throughout the universe.


---
# Reply to "Comment on "Unified Framework for Open Quantum Dynamics with Memory""

## 回复 “对“ 具有记忆的开放量子动力学统一框架 ”的评论”

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02409

arXiv:2411.02409v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We present our response to the commentary piece by Makri {\it et al.} [arXiv:2410.08239], which raises critiques of our work [Nat. Commun. 15, 8087 (2024)]. In our paper, we considered various settings of open-quantum system dynamics, including non-commuting, non-diagonalizable system-bath coupling, and bosonic/spin/fermionic baths. For these, we showed a direct and explicit relationship between the discrete-time memory kernel ($\mathcal K$) of the generalized quantum master equation (GQME) and the discrete-time influence functions ($I$) of the path integrals. As an application of this, we showed one can construct $\mathcal K$ without projection-free dynamics inputs that conventional methods require, and we also presented a quantum sensing protocol that characterizes the bath spectral density from reduced system dynamics. As the Comment focused on the relationship between ($\mathcal K$) and $I$ in one specific setup (i.e., commuting, diagonalizable system-bath coupling with a bosonic bath), we focus on that aspect in this response. In summary, we could not find a set of equations that explicitly connect $I$ and $\mathcal K$ from Makri's 2020 paper [J. Chem. Theory Comput. 16, 4038 (2020)]. Furthermore, while our analysis is specific to the choice of discretization of path-integral and GQME, we have not found issues with the GQME discretization employed. As per critiques on citations, in our paper, we note that we had acknowledged Makri's driven SMatPI work and Wang and Cai's tree-based SMatPI work for the number of Dyck paths needed for the computation of the memory kernel.


---
# Quantum Calculations of Hydrogen Absorption and Diffusivity in Bulk $\mathrm{CeO_2}$

## 块体中氢吸收和扩散系数的量子计算 $ \ mathrm{CeO_2}$

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06536

arXiv:2411.06536v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: CeO$_2$ (ceria) is an attractive material for heterogeneous catalysis applications involving hydrogen due to its favorable redox activity combined with its relative impermeability to hydrogen ions and molecules. However, to date, many bulk ceria/hydrogen properties remain unresolved in part due to a scarcity of experimental data combined with quantum calculation results that vary according to the approach used. In this regard, we have conducted a series of Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculations utilizing generalized gradient (GGA), meta-GGA, and hybrid functionals as well as several corrections for electronic correlations, applied to a number of properties regarding hydrogen in bulk stoichiometic $\mathrm{CeO_2}$. Our calculations place reasonable bounds on the lattice constants, band gaps, hydrogen absorption energies, and O-H bond vibrational frequencies that can be determined by DFT. In addition, our results indicate that the activation energy barriers for hydrogen bulk diffusion are uniformly low ($ < 0.15 \ \mathrm{eV} $) for the calculation parameters probed here and that, in general, the effect of hydrogen tunneling is small at ambient temperatures. Our study provides a recipe to determine fundamental physical chemical properties of Ce-O-H interactions while also determining realistic ranges for diffusion kinetics. This can facilitate the determination of future coarse-grained models that will be able to guide and elucidate experimental efforts in this area.


---
# Multifunctional spintronic transistors: Sub-60 mV/dec switching, non-local GMR, and NDR in spin gapless semiconductor and/or spin gapped metal FETs

## 多功能自旋电子晶体管: 自旋无间隙半导体和/或自旋间隙金属fet中的低于60 mV/12月开关，非局部GMR和NDR

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07216

arXiv:2411.07216v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Spin-gapless semiconductors (SGSs) are a promising class of materials for spintronic applications, enabling functions beyond conventional electronics. This study introduces a novel design for multifunctional spintronic field-effect transistors (FETs) using SGSs and/or spin-gapped metals (SGMs) as source and drain electrodes. These devices operate similarly to metal-semiconductor Schottky barrier FETs, where a potential barrier forms between the SGS (or SGM) electrode and the semiconducting channel. Unlike traditional Schottky barrier FETs, these devices utilize the unique spin-dependent transport properties of SGS/SGM electrodes to achieve sub-60 mV/dec switching, overcoming the 60 mV/dec sub-threshold swing limit in MOSFETs for low-voltage operation. Additionally, SGMs contribute a negative differential resistance (NDR) effect with an ultra-high peak-to-valley current ratio. The proposed spintronic FETs combine sub-60 mV/dec switching, non-local giant magnetoresistance (GMR), and NDR, making them suitable for applications like logic-in-memory computing and multivalued logic. These properties support computing architectures beyond the von-Neumann model, enabling efficient data processing. Two-dimensional (2D) nanomaterials provide a promising platform for these multifunctional FETs. We screen a computational 2D materials database to identify suitable SGS and SGM materials, selecting VS$2$ as the SGS for simulations. Using a non-equilibrium Green's function method with density functional theory, we simulate transfer ($I{\mathrm{D}}$-$V_{\mathrm{G}}$) and output ($I_{\mathrm{D}}$-$V_{\mathrm{D}}$) characteristics of a VS$_2$/Ga$_2$O$_2$ FET based on 2D type-II SGS VS$_2$, predicting a sub-threshold swing of 20 mV/dec, a high on/off ratio of 10$^8$, and a notable non-local GMR effect, demonstrating potential for low-power, high-performance applications.


---
# Systematic study of confinement induced effects on atomic electronic structure

## 原子电子结构受限诱导效应的系统研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11595

arXiv:2408.11595v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We point out that although a litany of studies have been published on atoms in hard-wall confinement, they have not been systematic or have not used robust numerical methods. We report a methodical study of atoms in hard-wall confinement employing a robust finite element method (FEM) in HelFEM that guarantees variational results and allows easily finding the numerically exact solution. Our fully numerical calculations are non-relativistic and are carried out at three levels of density functional theory with spherically averaged densities: the PW92, PBE, and r$^2$SCAN functionals. The three are in excellent agreement, confirming the physicality of our results.
  We systematically examine low lying configurations of the H-Xe atoms and their monocations, and investigate how the configurations - especially the ground state - behave as a function of the position of the hard-wall boundary. We consider both spin-polarized as well as spin-restricted densities, and demonstrate that spin-polarization effects are significant in open shell configurations, even though some previous studies have only considered the spin-restricted model.
  We demonstrate the importance of considering ground state changes for confined atoms by computing the ionization radii for the H-Xe atoms and observe significant differences to earlier studies.
  Confirming previous observations, we identify electron shifts on the outermost shells for a majority of the elements: valence $s$ electrons are highly unfavored under strong confinement, and the high-lying $3d$ and $4f$ orbitals become occupied in atoms of periods 2-3 and 3-4, respectively.
  We also comment on deficiencies of a commonly used density based estimate for the van der Waals (vdW) radius of atoms, and propose a better behaved variant in terms of the number of electrons outside the vdW radius that we expect will prove useful in future studies.


---
# Creation of an Fe$_3$P Schreibersite Density Functional Tight Binding Model for Astrobiological Simulations

## 用于天体生物学模拟的Fe $_3 $ P Schreibersite密度泛函紧密结合模型的创建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01884

arXiv:2409.01884v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: The mineral schreibersite, e.g., Fe$_3$P, is commonly found in iron-rich meteorites and could have served as an abiotic phosphorus source for prebiotic chemistry. However, atomistic calculations of its degradation chemistry generally require quantum simulation approaches, which can be too computationally cumbersome to study sufficient time and length scales for this process. In this regard, we have created a computationally efficient semi-empirical quantum Density Functional Tight Binding (DFTB) model for iron and phosphorus-containing materials by adopting an existing semi-automated workflow that represents many-body interactions by linear combinations of Chebyshev polynomials. We have utilized a relatively small training set to optimize a DFTB model that is accurate for schreibersite physical and chemical properties, including its bulk properties, surface energies, and water absorption. We then show that our model shows strong transferability to several iron phosphide solids as well as multiple allotropes of iron metal. Our resulting DFTB parameterization will allow us to interrogate schreibersite aqueous decomposition at longer time and length scales than standard quantum approaches, allowing for investigations of its role in prebiotic chemistry on early Earth.


---
# Univariate Prediction of Hammett Parameters and Select Relative Reaction Rates Using Loewdin Atomic Charges

## Hammett参数的单变量预测和使用Loewdin原子电荷选择相对反应速率

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-fgz5m-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Loewdin charges from density functional theory calculations have been used here to obtain general, univariate linear correlations for the prediction of experimental Hammett parameters and relative reaction rates. While previous studies have established that Hirshfeld and CM5 charges perform strongly as univariate predictors, the near-ubiquitous Loewdin charges have not yet been evaluated. To this end, we assess the predictive capability of Loewdin charges for three chemical systems. First, we show that Loewdin charges outperform Hirshfeld and CM5 charges for Hammett parameter prediction. Second, we see Loewdin charges generally perform comparably to Hirshfeld charges for predicting the relative rates of olefin cleavage by photoexcited nitroarenes. The single case of poor correlation, between relative rates and the Loewdin charges on nitrogen sites, is ameliorated when considering the net charge on the NO2 group. Third, we show that Loewdin, Hirshfeld, and CM5 charges all perform very well for generating correlations for relative reaction rates for C-H activation of 9-(4-X-phenyl)-9H-fluorene substrates by a transition metal catalyst. The equations generated throughout the study enable the prediction of Hammett parameters and relative reaction rates. These tools can accelerate synthetic and experimental studies by enabling the in silico prediction of uncharacterized chemical properties.


---
# Designing Molecular and Two Dimensional Metalloporphyrin Catalysts for the Electrochemical CO2 Reduction Reaction

## 设计用于电化学CO2还原反应的分子和二维金属卟啉催化剂

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-16402?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

A computational investigation of the electrocatalytic CO2 reduction (CO2R) on metalloporphyrin (M-POR) catalysts, featuring varying metal centres (Ni, Fe, Cu, and Co), oxidation states, and anchoring ligands, was conducted using density functional theory calculations. The evaluation of the thermodynamic and electrochemical stability of the M-POR systems concluded that neutral systems are more stable than charged systems, with the doubly reduced systems being the most unstable. The reaction free energy profiles for CO2R to the C1 products CO and HCOOH were computed according to two possible mechanisms: coupled proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) and proton transfer – electron transfer (PT-ET). The PCET pathways was found to be by far the most favourable, leading to the preferential formation of HCOOH over CO. Among the catalysts, Fe-POR exhibited the best catalytic performance for CO/HCOOH formation. To evaluate competition with the competitive hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), overpotentials of the CO2R and HER were compared for all systems. This comparison, along with the PCET analysis, revealed that most systems favour HCOOH production. The most promising M-PORs were then to generate models of two-dimensional (2D) carbonaceous frameworks, exploring their potential for CO2R, with 2D Fe-PORs being active towards C1 formation.

