# Quantum nonlinear effects in the number-conserving analogue gravity of Bose-Einstein condensates

## 玻色-爱因斯坦凝聚体的数保持模拟引力中的量子非线性效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13596

arXiv:2410.13596v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We consider the unitary quantum dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensates at absolute zero, and demonstrate that an analogue gravity model in such a setting must take into account the backreaction of quasiparticle excitations onto the condensate background. This in turn requires that one expands to second order in perturbations, and takes the nonlinearity of the theory into account. It is shown that this leads to significant modifications of the standard linearized analogue gravity paradigm \`a la Unruh. In particular, to obtain a fully Lorentz-covariant equation in curved spacetime for second-order perturbations, we demonstrate that it is necessary to introduce, to leading order in powers of the formal expansion parameter $N^{-1/2}$ (where $N$ is total particle number), a quantum-fluctuation-renormalized spacetime metric which substantially differs from the Unruh metric and, to subleading order, two emergent vector fields. Both the renormalized metric and the vector fields then keep track of the backreaction of the quasiparticles onto the condensate up to the order in powers of $N^{-1/2}$ considered. Finally, we apply our formalism to an analogue-cosmological Friedmann-Lema\^{i}tre-Robertson-Walker metric and establish its renormalized form due to the quantum many-body backreaction exerted by the excitation cloud.


---
# Quantum dynamics simulation of exciton-polariton transport

## 激子-极化子输运的量子动力学模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23739

arXiv:2410.23739v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Strong coupling between excitons and confined modes of light presents a promising pathway to tunable and enhanced energy transport in organic materials. By forming hybrid light-matter quasiparticles, exciton-polaritons, electronic excitations can traverse long distances at high velocities through ballistic flow. However, transport behavior of exciton-polaritons varies strongly across experiments, spanning both diffusive and ballistic transport regimes. Which properties of the material and light-modes govern the transport behavior of polaritons remains an open question. Through full-quantum dynamical simulations we reveal a strong dependence of polariton transport on vibronic interactions within molecules in both ideal and lossy cavities. Specifically, we show that intramolecular vibrations mediate relaxation processes that alter polariton composition, lifetime and velocity on ultrafast timescales. Analysis of the propagating wavepacket in position and momentum space provides mechanistic insight into the robustness of ballistic flow of exciton-polaritons found experimentally under cryogenic conditions.


---
# Time evolving matrix product operator (TEMPO) method in a non-diagonal basis set based on derivative of the path integral expression

## 基于路径积分表达式导数的非对角基集中时间演化矩阵乘积算子 (TEMPO) 方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23877

arXiv:2410.23877v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The time-evolving matrix product operator (TEMPO) method is a powerful tool for simulating open system quantum dynamics. Typically, it is used in problems with diagonal system-bath coupling, where analytical expressions for discretized influence functional are available. In this work, we aim to address issues related to off-diagonal coupling by extending the TEMPO algorithm to accommodate arbitrary basis sets. The proposed approach is based on computing the derivative of the discretized path integral expression of a generalized influence functional when increasing one time step, which yields an equation of motion valid for non-diagonal basis set and arbitrary number of non-commuting baths. The generalized influence functional is then obtained by integrating the resulting differential equation. Applicability of the the new method is then tested by simulating one- and two- qubit systems coupled to both Z- and X-type baths.


---
# Exploring the Influence of Approximations for Simulating Valence Excited X-ray Spectra

## 探索近似对模拟价激发x射线光谱的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-5q956-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

First principles simulations of excited state X-ray spectra are becoming increasingly important to interpret the wealth of electronic and geometric information contained within femtosecond X-ray absorption spectra recorded at X-ray Free Electron Lasers (X-FELs). However, because the transition dipole matrix elements must be calculated between two excited states (i.e. the valence excited state and the final core-excited state arising from the initial valence excited state) of very different energies, this can be challenging and time-consuming to compute. Herein using two molecules, protonated formaldimine and cyclobutanone, we assess the ability of n-electron valence state perturbation theory (NEVPT2), equation-of-motion coupled cluster theory (EOM-CCSD), linear-response time-dependent density functional theory (LR-TDDFT) and the maximum overlap method (MOM) to describe excited state X-ray spectra. Our study focuses in particular on the behaviour of these methods away from the Franck-Condon geometry and in the vicinity of important topological features of excited-state potential energy surfaces, namely conical intersections. We demonstrate that the primary feature of excited state X-ray spectra is associated with the core electron filling the hole created by the initial valence excitation, a process that all the methods can capture. Higher-energy states are generally weaker and more sensitive to the nature of the reference electronic wavefunction. As molecular structures evolve away from the Franck-Condon geometry, changes in the spectral shape closely follow the underlying valence excitation, highlighting the importance of accurately describing the initial valence excitation to simulate the excited state X-ray absorption spectra.

