# Automated optimization and uncertainty quantification of convergence parameters in plane wave density functional theory calculations

## 平面波密度泛函理论计算中收敛参数的自动优化和不确定性量化

Link: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01388-2

<p>npj Computational Materials, Published online: 19 November 2024; <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01388-2">doi:10.1038/s41524-024-01388-2</a></p>Automated optimization and uncertainty quantification of convergence parameters in plane wave density functional theory calculations


---
# Electronic Structures of Atomic Silicon Dimer Wires as a Function of Length

## 原子硅二聚体线的电子结构与长度的关系

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10625

arXiv:2411.10625v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Bare silicon dimers on hydrogen-terminated Si(100) have two dangling bonds. These are atomically localized regions of high state density near to and within the bulk silicon band gap. We studied bare silicon dimers as monomeric units. Silicon dimer wires are much more stable than wires composed of individual dangling bonds. Dimer wires composed of 1 to 5 dimers were intentionally fabricated and characterised by STM techniques combined with density functional theory to provide detailed insights into geometric and electronic structure. Structural and dynamic qualities displayed by short wires were shown to be similar to the characteristics of a relatively long 37 dimer wire. Rather than adding two states into the band gap, experiment and theory reveal that each dimer adds one empty state into the gap and one filled state into the valence bands. Coupling among these states provides a conduction pathway with small bulk coupling.


---
# First-principles calculation of the entropy of liquids with a case study on sodium

## 以钠为例的液体熵的第一性原理计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10930

arXiv:2411.10930v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Despite increasing demands for the thermodynamic data of liquids in a wide range of science and engineering fields, there is a still a considerable lack of reliable data over a wide range of temperature ($T$) and pressure conditions. The most significant obstacle is that there is no practical method to calculate the entropy ($S$) of liquids. This problem can be solved using the thermodynamic definition of entropy, i.e., $S = \int C d\ln T$, where $C$ is specific heat. The specific heat is calculated by the derivative of the internal energy $U$ with respect to $T$. Both quantities, i.e., $U$ and $T$, are well defined in the molecular dynamics (MD) simulations based on density functional theory. The reliability of the present method is entirely dependent on the accuracy of the specific heat of liquid, for which there is no standard model. The problem with liquids is that there are no eigenstates, based on which the standard procedures are constructed. The relationship between $U$ and $T$ is affected by the energy relaxation processes, the effect of which appears in the $T$ dependence on the specific heat of liquids. This motivates us to conduct MD simulations by isolating the system from an external heat bath. In this paper, by applying this method to the liquid sodium, it is demonstrated that the experimental $T$ dependence of the isochoric specific heat is reproduced well without any empirical parameter. On this basis, the entropy of the liquid Na is obtained with a good agreement with experimental values.


---
# Electron-phonon associated carrier mobility in MgSe and MgTe

## MgSe和MgTe中电子-声子相关的载流子迁移率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11399

arXiv:2411.11399v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Electron-phonon (E-p) coupling incorporated density functional theory (DFT) based investigation of structural, electronic and vibrational properties of bulk MgSe and MgTe is presented. Electron-phonon coupling is incorporated to understand its effect on charge carrier dynamics. It is observed that the MgTe possesses room temperature hole and electron mobility of 18.7 cm2/Vs and 335 cm2/Vs, respectively; in contrast to this, the bulk MgSe follows reverse trend in temperature dependent carrier mobilities owing to its different scattering rate and electron-phonon coupling profiles. The key feature of the study was to showcase the importance of electron-phonon coupling in determining the carrier mobility and the relative dynamics in the material. Further, the incorporation of e-p coupling softens the electronic and phonon dispersions which is subjected to the inclusion of the interaction between the electrons and the phonons of the systems. The overall results indicate that the incorporation of the electron-phonon coupling is crucial in determining the carrier dynamics of the system which is in excellent agreement with the experimental findings. Both materials possess moderate magnitudes of mobilities that are subjected to the modification by means of changing the dimensional confinement and/or chemical composition that can strongly influence the carrier dynamics by means of altered edge states and coupling parameters.


---
# Asymptotic properties of bridging transitions in sinusoidally-shaped slits

## 正弦形狭缝中的桥接过渡的渐近性质

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11509

arXiv:2411.11509v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We study bridging transitions that emerge between two sinusoidally-shaped walls of amplitude $A$, wavenumber $k$, and mean separation $L$. The focus is on weakly corrugated walls to examine the properties of bridging transitions in the limit when the walls become flat. The reduction of walls roughness can be achieved in two ways which we show differ qualitatively: a) By decreasing $k$, (i.e., by increasing the system wavelength), which induces a continuous phenomenon associated with the growth of bridging films concentrated near the system necks, the thickness of with the thickness of these films diverging as $\sim k^{-2/3}$ in the limit of $k\to0$. Simultaneously, the location of the transition approaches that of capillary condensation in an infinite planar slit of an appropriate width as $\sim k^{2/3}$; b) in contrast, the limit of vanishing walls roughness by reducing $A$ cannot be considered in this context, as there exists a minimal value $A_{\rm min}(k,L)$ of the amplitude below which bridging transition does not occur. On the other hand, for amplitudes $A>A_{\rm min}(k,L)$, the bridging transition always precedes global condensation in the system. These predictions, including the scaling property $A_{\rm min}\propto kL^2$, are verified numerically using density functional theory.


---
# A New Direction for First-Principles Device Simulations

## 第一性原理器件仿真的新方向

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11780

arXiv:2411.11780v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The continued miniaturization of semiconductor devices, represented by Moore's law, has reached the atomic scale limit, requiring nanoscale quantum mechanical effects to be included in device simulations without empirical parameters. For this purpose, a method that combines density functional theory (DFT) and non-equilibrium Green's function (NEGF) theory has been established as the standard approach for atomic-scale device simulations. However, the DFT-NEGF scheme has several inherent weaknesses due to the underlying Landauer or grand canonical viewpoint. To overcome these challenges, over the years, we have developed an alternative approach, the multi-space constrained-search DFT (MS-DFT) formalism. The central starting point of this development is the replacement of the Landauer picture by the multi-space excitation viewpoint or the mapping of the quantum transport process to the energy- and position-space electron excitation within a (micro)canonical ensemble device model. This change in the viewpoint leads to several fundamental advantages of MS-DFT over its DFT-NEGF counterparts, such as the variational determination of non-equilibrium total energy, the explicit extraction of quasi-Fermi level distributions, and the possibility of faithfully modeling finite 2D electrodes. In this article, we highlight the key features and applications of the MS-DFT formalism.


---
# A Rigorous Theory of Quantum-Classical Systems at Finite Temperature, Part I: Exact Functional Formulation in the Canonical Ensemble

## 有限温度下量子经典系统的严格理论，第一部分: 规范系综中的精确功能公式

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11821

arXiv:2411.11821v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Combining classical density functional theory (cDFT) with quantum mechanics (QM) methods offers a computationally efficient alternative to traditional QM/molecular mechanics (MM) approaches for modeling mixed quantum-classical systems at finite temperatures. However, both QM/MM and QM/cDFT rely on approximations that introduce ambiguities. This series of papers aims to establish a rigorous theoretical framework to guide the development of a QM/cDFT formulation that clarifies the approximations involved. In this first paper, we establish a comprehensive density functional theory (DFT) framework for mixed quantum (QM)-classical (MM) systems within the canonical ensemble. We derive the equilibrium density matrix for a system comprising N qm QM and N mm MM particles and, based on this derivation, propose a variational formulation of the Helmholtz free energy in terms of the full QM-MM density matrix. By leveraging permutational symmetry and thanks to constrained-search methods, we reformulate the variational problem using functionals of objects having reduced dimensionalities. Three different formulations are presented, each using quantities with progressively lower dimensionalities. This ultimately enables computation of the Helmholtz free energy using only the QM and MM one-body densities, generalizing both cDFT and electronic DFT (eDFT) for QM-MM systems. In a subsequent paper, this formalism will be extended to the grand canonical ensemble, allowing classical particle number fluctuations. This extension, in which cDFT is most naturally formulated, provides a framework for studying solvation problems.


---
# Self-trapping phenomenon, multistability and chaos in open anisotropic Dicke dimer

## 开放各向异性Dicke二聚体中的自俘获现象，多稳定性和混沌

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.13809

arXiv:2405.13809v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We investigate semiclassical dynamics of a coupled atom-photon interacting system described by a dimer of anisotropic Dicke model in the presence of photon loss, exhibiting a rich variety of non-linear dynamics. Based on symmetries and dynamical classification, we characterize and chart out various dynamical phases in a phase diagram. A key feature of this system is the multistability of different dynamical states, particularly the coexistence of various superradiant phases as well as limit cycles. Remarkably, this dimer system manifests self-trapping phenomena, resulting in a photon population imbalance between the cavities. Such a self-trapped state arises from a saddle-node bifurcation, which can be understood from an equivalent Landau-Ginzburg description. Additionally, we identify a unique class of oscillatory dynamics self-trapped limit cycle, hosting self-trapping of photons. The absence of stable dynamical phases leads to the onset of chaos, which is diagnosed using the saturation value of the decorrelator dynamics. Moreover, the self-trapped states can coexist with chaotic attractor, which may have intriguing consequences in quantum dynamics. Finally, we discuss the experimental relevance of our findings, which can be tested in cavity and circuit quantum electrodynamics setups.


---
# Quantum Chemical and Trajectory Surface Hopping Molecular Dynamics Study of Iodine-based BODIPY Photosensitizer

## 碘基BODIPY光敏剂的量子化学和轨迹表面跳跃分子动力学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10893

arXiv:2411.10893v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: A computational study of I-BODIPY (2-ethyl-4,4-difluoro-6,7-diiodo-1,3-dimethyl-4-bora-3a,4a-diaza-s-indacene) was conducted to investigate its photophysical properties as a potential triplet photosensitizer for singlet oxygen generation. Multireference CASPT2 and CASSCF methods were used to calculate vertical excitation energies and spin-orbit couplings (SOCs) in a model monoiodinated BODIPY molecule to assess the applicability of the single-reference ADC(2) method.
  Time-dependent density functional theory (TD-DFT) with the Tamm-Dancoff approximation (TDA) was tested against ADC(2) using different exchange-correlation functionals, employing a two-component pseudopotential basis set for iodine. SOC magnitudes between excited states were discussed using the Slater-Condon rules. The geometry dependence of SOCs for the lowest states was also examined.
  TD-DFT/B3LYP and TD-DFT(TDA)/BHLYP were selected for subsequent absorption spectra and trajectory surface hopping (TSH) molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Two bright states were identified in I-BODIPY's visible spectrum, showing a red shift due to iodine substitution. Excited-state MD simulations, including nonadiabatic effects and SOCs, were performed to investigate relaxation after photoexcitation to the S1 state.
  TSH MD simulations revealed that intersystem crossings occur on a similar timescale to internal conversions. After triplet population growth, a "saturation" phase was reached with a triplet-to-singlet ratio of about 4:1. The calculated triplet quantum yield of 0.85 agrees qualitatively with the experimental singlet oxygen generation yield of 0.99.


---
# All-Electron Molecular Tunnel Ionization Based on the Weak-Field Asymptotic Theory in the Integral Representation

## 基于积分表示的弱场渐近理论的全电子分子隧道电离

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09372

arXiv:2408.09372v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Tunnel ionization (TI) underlies many important ultrafast processes, such as high-harmonic generation and strong-field ionization. Among the existing theories for TI, many-electron weak-field asymptotic theory (ME-WFAT) is by design capable of accurately treating many-electron effects in TI. An earlier version of ME-WFAT relied on an accurate representation of the asymptotic tail of the orbitals, which hindered its implementation in Gaussian-basis-set-based quantum chemistry programs. In this work, we reformulate ME-WFAT in the integral representation, which makes the quality of the asymptotic tail much less critical, hence greatly facilitating its implementation in standard quantum chemistry packages. The integral reformulation introduced here is therefore much more robust when applied to molecules with arbitrary geometry. We present several case studies, among which is the CO molecule where some earlier theories disagree with experiments. Here, we find that ME-WFAT produces the largest ionization probability when the field points from C to O, as experiments suggest. An attractive feature of ME-WFAT is that it can be used with various types of multielectron methods whether of density functional [Phys. Rev. A 106, 052211 (2022)] or multiconfiguration types, this in turn facilitates tunnel ionization calculation in systems exhibiting a strong multireference character.


---
# Self-trapping phenomenon, multistability and chaos in open anisotropic Dicke dimer

## 开放各向异性Dicke二聚体中的自俘获现象，多稳定性和混沌

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.13809

arXiv:2405.13809v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: We investigate semiclassical dynamics of a coupled atom-photon interacting system described by a dimer of anisotropic Dicke model in the presence of photon loss, exhibiting a rich variety of non-linear dynamics. Based on symmetries and dynamical classification, we characterize and chart out various dynamical phases in a phase diagram. A key feature of this system is the multistability of different dynamical states, particularly the coexistence of various superradiant phases as well as limit cycles. Remarkably, this dimer system manifests self-trapping phenomena, resulting in a photon population imbalance between the cavities. Such a self-trapped state arises from a saddle-node bifurcation, which can be understood from an equivalent Landau-Ginzburg description. Additionally, we identify a unique class of oscillatory dynamics self-trapped limit cycle, hosting self-trapping of photons. The absence of stable dynamical phases leads to the onset of chaos, which is diagnosed using the saturation value of the decorrelator dynamics. Moreover, the self-trapped states can coexist with chaotic attractor, which may have intriguing consequences in quantum dynamics. Finally, we discuss the experimental relevance of our findings, which can be tested in cavity and circuit quantum electrodynamics setups.


---
# Impact of Applied Potential on the Facet Ratio and Size of                                 Ir and Cu Catalysts

## 外加电位对Ir和Cu催化剂的晶面比和尺寸的影响

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-m22jm?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The surface energy of a catalyst material is important for understanding the fundamental behavior of nanoparticles and bulk crystals, particularly in terms of activity, selectivity, durability, and stability. Computational studies of electrocatalysts provide valuable insight into the stability of electrode surfaces under realistic environments, including solid/liquid interfaces. In this work, we model the electrode/solid surface using the density functional theory (DFT), and electrolyte/liquid using the implicit solvation model. Importantly, we examined the surface energies of low-index facets of Ir and Cu crystals in an aqueous electrolyte as a function of applied electrode potential.  The results show that each surface facet of the neutral surface belongs to an initial potential which is called the potential of zero charge (PZC). Both Ir and Cu (111) facets have higher PZC values relative to other studied facets. Ir and Cu (111) facets exhibit the most stable surfaces with low surface energy profiles within the range of applied potential, while (110) facets show the lowest stability for electrocatalyst applications. This study shows that the surface energies are highly sensitive to the applied potential and leads to the change in particle size and facet ratio under the applied potentials.


---
# Dynamic Au-C anchors in molecular junctions under oriented external electric fields

## 定向外部电场下分子结中的动态au-c锚定

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-g4q8t?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Terminal anchor groups play a key role in controlling the stability and electronic properties of molecular junctions. Single molecule junctions typically consist of two terminal anchors linking organic molecules to metal electrodes. Here, we show that p-terphenyl derivatives containing only a single terminal anchor exhibit conductance features similar to junctions with two terminal anchors, which arises due to dynamic Au-C bond formation under oriented external electric fields (OEEFs). A set of p-terphenyl derivatives with one terminal anchor was prepared and characterized using automated chemical synthesis, single molecule electronics experiments, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and non-equilibrium Green’s function-density functional theory (NEGF-DFT) calculations. Our results show that 4-amino-p-terphenyl (PPP) exhibits a distinct and well-defined high conductance state that is greatly diminished or absent in other p-terphenyl derivatives with single terminal anchors, whereas a low conductance state is observed in all amino-p-terphenyl derivatives due to non-covalent dimeric interactions. The electronic properties of PPP are characterized using a combination of cyclic voltammetry, electrolysis, and electron spin resonance, revealing that the high conductance state in PPP arises due to robust Au-C bond formation facilitated by a radical-based rigid resonating structure under OEEFs. A series of control experiments on junctions with different anchor groups reveals the role of primary amines in forming dynamic linkages under OEEFs. Overall, these results suggest that OEEFs can trigger Au-C bond formation leading to high conductance pathways in organic molecules containing only one terminal anchor. Insights from this work can be leveraged in the design of molecular electronic devices, particularly in understanding the mechanisms of molecular binding and junction formation.


---
# Cation-π Interactions Involving Graphynes: An Intermolecular Force Field Formulation Featuring Ion-Induced Dipole Effects

## 涉及石墨的阳离子-π 相互作用: 具有离子诱导的偶极效应的分子间力场公式

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-6pgl4?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Over the past few years, graphynes (GYs), one of the latest families of carbon allotropes, have been investigated as promising materials for various applications, including lithium-ion batteries. Developing analytic potentials for describing potential energy surfaces underlying cation-π interactions is a challenging task for large-scale simulations involving carbon-based materials. This study aimed to develop effective analytic models to overcome computational challenges in accurately capturing cation-π interactions between alkali metal ions (Li+, Na+, K+) and GYs, which are crucial for ion storage and transport within nanoporous GY frameworks. The high computational demands of ab initio methods for such large systems make analytic modeling increasingly essential. The absence of reliable analytic potentials and parameters needs to be urgently addressed. Here, we report that the commonly used 12-6 Lennard-Jones (LJ) potential combined with electrostatics (EL) is insufficient for representing cation-π interactions, as it fails to capture the ion-induced dipole effects that are crucial for the problem in hand. To address this, we propose modified 12-4 LJ + EL and improved Lennard-Jones (ILJ) potentials, which better capture the necessary short-range repulsions and long-range attractions. We developed and validated parameter sets based on interaction energy curves from density functional theory (DFT), enabling a reasonably accurate modeling of cation permeation and surface dynamics on GY sheets. This work not only advances the understanding of cation-π interactions in GYs but also introduces computationally efficient models that support the design of GYs for next-generation energy storage applications.


---
# A Dual-Targeted Nanocapsule Inhibitor Alleviates Severe Acute Pancreatitis via Cytokine and NLRP3 Inflammasome Regulation

## 双靶向纳米胶囊抑制剂通过细胞因子和NLRP3炎性体调节减轻重症急性胰腺炎

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5384251/latest

Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP), a special type of acute abdomen, lacks effective treatment methods for clinical diagnosis because of its complex etiology and unclear pathogenesis. Herein, we engineered a structurally controllable gold-doped Prussian blue analogues-based nanozyme by optimizing the preparation procedure as a dual-targeted inhibitor of the NLRP3 inflammasome and inflammatory cytokine pathways for treating SAP. The as-synthesized nanomaterials with different structures, including nanocapsular (CaAuHCF), ultramicro nanocube (CAHCF-Au), and nanocube (CaHCF) structures, exhibit multienzyme-like activities, such as peroxidase (POD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), which are dependent on their structure. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations revealed the underlying mechanisms of differences in reactivity among nanomaterials with different compositions and structures, indicating that the POD catalytic activity of CaAuHCF nanocapsules plays a leading role under physiological conditions. In vitro or vivo experiments confirmed that CaAuHCF nanocapsules can efficiently remove exogenous and endogenous reactive oxygen species (ROS) at the cellular level and are nontoxic. Importantly, the CaAuHCF nanozyme not only is a cytokine regulator that can mediate the level of cytokine factors related to proinflammatory cell pathways (IL-6, TNF-&alpha;, and IL-1&beta;) but also acts as an inhibitor of NLRP3 activation to effectively relieve the inflammatory symptoms of SAP through preventing the cleavage of Gasdermin-D into Gasdermin-N via targeted inhibition of cleaved Caspase-1 activation, thus suppressing the pyroptosis of pancreatic and immune cells. Overall, our data highlight the feasibility of CaAuHCF nanocapsules as dual-targeted inhibitors of cytokines and the NLRP3 inflammasome and provide potential nanozyme-based antioxidants for SAP treatment.

