# One-dimensional Plasmons and Hybridized Coupled Polaritons in Carbon Nanotubes

## 碳纳米管中的一维等离激元和杂化耦合极化子

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00996

arXiv:2411.00996v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This paper presents real-time time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) ab-initio simulations of selected armchair carbon nanotubes (CNTs). By scaling the lengths of CNTs, we provide a comprehensive analysis of the Tomonaga-Luttinger (T-L) 1-D plasmon velocities, confirming consistency with theoretical predictions and experimental observations. Our findings include detailed visual representations of excitation densities at various resonances. Furthermore, we explore the coupling between T-L plasmons and single electron excitations, identifying distinct 1-D polariton behaviors, such as strong harmonic generation due to nonlinearities, as well as energy gaps that differ from conventional 2-D polaritons. The study highlights the unique properties of armchair SWCNTs as low-loss nanocavity resonators, demonstrating potential applications in strong light-matter coupling and other nanophotonic devices. The simulation framework employed here opens avenues for further research into 1-D plasmonic phenomena and electronic spectroscopy in complex nanostructures.


---
# Multifractality of Many-Body Non-Hermitian Skin Effect

## 多体非厄米趋肤效应的多重分形性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08304

arXiv:2401.08304v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The non-Hermitian skin effect, anomalous localization of an extensive number of eigenstates induced by nonreciprocal dissipation, plays a pivotal role in non-Hermitian topology and significantly influences the open quantum dynamics. However, its genuinely quantum characterization in many-body systems has yet to be developed. Here, we elucidate that the skin effect manifests itself as multifractality in the many-body Hilbert space. This multifractality does not accompany the single-particle skin effect and hence is intrinsic to the many-body skin effect. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the many-body skin effect coexists with spectral statistics of random matrices, in contrast to multifractality associated with the many-body localization, which necessitates the absence of ergodicity. We also illustrate multifractality caused by the Liouvillian skin effect in Markovian open quantum systems. Our work establishes a defining characterization of the non-Hermitian skin effect and uncovers a fundamental relationship between multifractality and ergodicity in open quantum many-body systems.


---
# Speed limits and thermodynamic uncertainty relations for quantum systems governed by non-Hermitian Hamiltonian

## 由非埃尔米特哈密顿量控制的量子系统的速度极限和热力学不确定性关系

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.16392

arXiv:2404.16392v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians play a crucial role in describing open quantum systems and nonequilibrium dynamics. In this paper, we derive trade-off relations for systems governed by non-Hermitian Hamiltonians, focusing on the Margolus-Levitin-type and Mandelstam-Tamm-type bounds, which are originally derived as quantum speed limits in isolated quantum dynamics. While the quantum speed limit for the Mandelstam-Tamm bound in general non-Hermitian systems was derived in the literature, we obtain a Mandelstam-Tamm quantum speed limit for continuous measurement using the continuous matrix product state formalism. Moreover, we derive a Margolus-Levitin quantum speed limit in the non-Hermitian setting. We derive additional bounds on the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean of an observable, which take the same form as the thermodynamic uncertainty relation. As an example, we apply these bounds to the continuous measurement formalism in open quantum dynamics, where the dynamics is described by discontinuous jumps and smooth evolution induced by the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Our work provides a unified perspective on the quantum speed limit and thermodynamic uncertainty relations in open quantum dynamics from the viewpoint of the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, extending the results of previous studies.


---
# Strong parity-violation effects induced by large-amplitude motions: A quantum-dynamics study of substituted chiral methanols

## 大振幅运动引起的强烈的奇偶校验违反效应: 取代手性甲醇的量子动力学研究

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02302

arXiv:2411.02302v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: An enhanced mechanism is proposed for the large-amplitude-motion-induced parity-violating frequency by integrating the exact quantum dynamics method with the relativistic electronic structure theory. The torsional wavefunctions and PV frequency shifts are obtained by the exact quantum dynamics method. The potential energy curve and PV energy along the torsional coordinates are calculated using the extended atomic mean-field two-component Hamiltonian. The predicted PV frequency shift for the torsional transition of CFClBrOH is approximately 100 times larger than that of the conventional C-F stretching mode of CHFClBr. The maximum PV frequency shift (3.1 Hz) is obtained in the CHBrIOH molecule.


---
# Capturing the elusive curve-crossing in low-lying states of butadiene with dressed TDDFT

## 用修饰的TDDFT捕获丁二烯低洼状态中难以捉摸的曲线交叉

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22286

arXiv:2410.22286v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A striking example of the need to accurately capture states of double-excitation character in molecules is seen in predicting photo-induced dynamics in small polyenes. Due to the coupling of electronic and nuclear motions,the dark 2$^1$Ag state, known to have double-excitation character, can be reached after an initial photo-excitation to the bright $^1$Bu state via crossings of their potential energy surfaces. However, the shapes of the surfaces are so poorly captured by most electronic structure methods, that the crossing is missed or substantially mis-located. We demonstrate that the frequency-dependent kernel of dressed TDDFT beyond Tamm-Dancoff successfully captures the curve-crossing, providing an energy surface close to the highly accurate but more expensive $\delta$-CR-EOMCC(2,3) benchmark reference. This, along with its accurate prediction of the excitation character of the state makes dressed TDDFT a practical and accurate route to electronic structure quantities needed in modeling ultrafast dynamics in molecules.


---
# Investigating the origin of Automatic Rhodopsin Modeling outliers using the microbial Gloeobacter rhodopsin as testbed

## 使用微生物Gloeobacter视紫红质作为测试平台调查自动视紫红质建模异常值的起源

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-2j8mx-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The Automatic Rhodopsin Modeling (ARM) approach is a computational workflow devised for the automatic build up of hybrid quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) models of wild-type rhodopsins and mutants, with the purpose of establish- ing trends in their photophysical and photochemical properties. Despite the success of ARM for accurately describing the visible light absorption maxima of many rhodopsins, for few cases, called outliers, it might lead to large deviations with respect to exper- iments. Applying ARM to Gloeobacter Rhodopsin (GR), a microbial rhodopsin with important applications in optogenetics, we analyze the origin of such outliers in the absorption energies obtained for GR wild-type and mutants at neutral pH, with a total root mean square deviation (RMSD) of 0.42 eV with respect to the experimen- tal GR excitation energies. Having discussed the importance and the uncertainty of one particular amino-acid pKa , namely histidine at position 87, we propose and test several modifications to the standard ARM protocol: (i) improved pKa predictions along with the consideration of several protonation microstates, (ii) attenuation of the opsin electrostatic potential at short-range, (iii) substitution of the state-average com- plete active space (CAS) electronic structure method by its state-specific approach, and (iv) complete replacement of CAS with mixed-reference spin-flip time-dependent density functional theory (MRSF-TDDFT). The best RMSD result we obtain is 0.2 eV combining the protonation of H87 and using MRSF/CAMH-B3LYP.

