# Atomic-Scale Observation of Moire potential in Twisted Hexagonal Boron Nitride Layers by Electron Microscopy

## 通过电子显微镜观察扭曲的六方氮化硼层中的莫尔电位

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07653

arXiv:2411.07653v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Moire superlattices (MSLs) are an emerging class of two-dimensional materials whose electronic states can be tuned by the twist angle between two van der Waals layers and/or the relative placement of the layers. As the twist angle increases (decreases), the resulting MSLs tend to have a shorter (longer) wavelength pattern with in general incommensurate (com-mensurate) patterns, forming an underlying moir\'e potential depending on the twist angle. Irrespective of the commensura-bility/ incommensurability of MSLs, atomic-scale observation of the moir\'e potential is quite challenging, and the details of their interlayer interactions and the related anomalous effects such as correlated superconductivity and anomalous quan-tum Hall effects are still elusive. In this work, we show that aberration-corrected transmission electron microscopy allows us to obtain atomic-scale image of the moir\'e potentials both in the commensurate and incommensurate states. For this pur-pose, we use atomically clean and strain-free hexagonal boron nitride nanolayers, which are fabricated by a chemical exfo-liation method developed especially in this work. Even in the case of incommensurate state, the local interlayer atomic overlap plays a decisive role in determining the resulting moir\'e potentials, as supported by density functional theory calcu-lations. This work not only provides a general strategy to observe the moir\'e potential in MSLs, but it also expands the ap-plication of electron microcopy to the further study of MSLs with atomic resolution.


---
# Interlayer charge transfer induced by electronic instabilities in the natural van der Waals hetrostructure 4H$_b$-TaS$_2$

## 自然范德华结构4h $ _b $-TaS $_2 $ 中电子不稳定性引起的层间电荷转移

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07823

arXiv:2411.07823v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The natural van der Waals heterostructure 4H$_b$-TaS$_2$ composed of alternating 1T- and 1H-TaS$_2$ layers serves as a platform for investigating the electronic correlations and layer-dependent properties of novel quantum materials. The temperature evolution of the conductivity spectra $\sigma(\omega)$ obtained through infrared spectroscopy elucidates the influence of band modifications associated with the charge-density-wave (CDW) superlattice on the 1T layer, resulting in a room-temperature energy gap, $\Delta_{\rm CDW}\approx$ 0.35 eV. However, there is no gap associated to the 1H layer. Supported by density functional theory calculations, we attribute the behavior of interband transitions to the convergence of the layers, which amplifies the charge transfer from the 1T to the 1H layers, progressing as the temperature decreases. This phenomenon leads to an enhanced low-energy spectral weight and carrier density. The presence of an energy gap and the temperature-tunable charge transfer within the bulk of 4H$_b$-TaS$_2$ driven by layer-dependent CDW states contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of other complex compounds of transition-metal dichalcogenides.


---
# Atomic-scale study on core-shell Cu precipitation in steels: atom probe tomography and ab initio calculations

## 钢中核壳Cu沉淀的原子尺度研究: 原子探针层析成像和从头计算

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07921

arXiv:2411.07921v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The present work investigates the atomic interactions among Cu, Al, and Ni elements in bcc-iron matrix, focusing on the formation mechanism of nano-sized core-shell Cu precipitates. Using a combination of atom probe tomography (APT), density functional theory (DFT) cal-culations, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, the study provides insights into the atomic-scale migration tendencies of these elements in the supersaturated solid solution sur-rounding Cu precipitate in the martensite phase of a medium-Mn steel. The results show that Ni and Al atoms were not expelled by Cu atoms but were instead attracted to the bcc iron matrix, forming a stable co-segregation in the outer shell. This phase effectively surrounded the nano-sized Cu precipitate and prevented its rapid growth, contributing to improved me-chanical properties. The findings offer a theoretical method for developing Cu-contaminated circular steels by utilizing DFT calculations to unravel bonding preferences and assess the po-tential for forming a stable precipitation phase around nano-sized Cu precipitates.


---
# Collective multimode strong coupling in plasmonic nanocavities

## 等离子体纳米腔中的集体多模强耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07694

arXiv:2411.07694v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Plasmonic nanocavities enable access to the quantum properties of matter, but are often simplified to single mode models despite their complex multimode structure. Here, we show that off-resonant plasmonic modes in fact play a crucial role in strong coupling, and determine the onset of a novel collective interaction. Our analysis reveals that $n$ strongly coupled plasmonic modes, introduce up to $n(n+1)/2$ oscillation frequencies that depend on their coupling strengths and detunings from the quantum emitter. Furthermore, we identify three distinct regions as the coupling strength increases: (1) single mode, (2) multimode, and (3) collective multimode strong coupling. Our findings enhance the understanding of quantum dynamics in realistic plasmonic environments and demonstrate their potential to achieve ultra-fast energy transfer in light-driven quantum technologies.


---
# Geometric constructions of generalized dual-unitary circuits from biunitarity

## 基于双单一性的广义对偶-酉电路的几何构造

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07783

arXiv:2411.07783v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We present a general framework for constructing solvable lattice models of chaotic many-body quantum dynamics with multiple unitary directions using biunitary connections. We show that a network of biunitary connections on the Kagome lattice naturally defines a multi-unitary circuit, where three `arrows of time' directly reflect the lattice symmetry. These models unify various constructions of hierarchical dual-unitary and triunitary gates and present new families of models with solvable correlations and entanglement dynamics. Using multilayer constructions of biunitary connections, we additionally introduce multilayer circuits with monoclinic symmetry and higher level hierarchical dual-unitary solvability and discuss their (non-)ergodicity. Our work demonstrates how different classes of solvable models can be understood as arising from different geometric structures in spacetime.


---
# Collective multimode strong coupling in plasmonic nanocavities

## 等离子体纳米腔中的集体多模强耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.07694

arXiv:2411.07694v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Plasmonic nanocavities enable access to the quantum properties of matter, but are often simplified to single mode models despite their complex multimode structure. Here, we show that off-resonant plasmonic modes in fact play a crucial role in strong coupling, and determine the onset of a novel collective interaction. Our analysis reveals that $n$ strongly coupled plasmonic modes, introduce up to $n(n+1)/2$ oscillation frequencies that depend on their coupling strengths and detunings from the quantum emitter. Furthermore, we identify three distinct regions as the coupling strength increases: (1) single mode, (2) multimode, and (3) collective multimode strong coupling. Our findings enhance the understanding of quantum dynamics in realistic plasmonic environments and demonstrate their potential to achieve ultra-fast energy transfer in light-driven quantum technologies.


---
# DFT Studies on the Ground State, First Singlet Excited State, and Triplet State of Triphenylamine and Its Dimer

## 三苯胺及其二聚体基态、第一单重激发态和三重态的DFT研究

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-lcm9x?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were carried out to study triphenylamine and its dimer linked by methyl groups in order to understand the degeneracy and conjugation in Wannier organic small molecule (OSM) dimers. Both molecules’ structures are optimized in the ground state S0, the first singlet excited state S1, and the triplet state T1, with dichloromethane and toluene as the solvents, at the B3LYP/6-31+g(d,p) level of theory. We report optimized parameters for each state of each molecule in each solvent, as well as the UV-Vis, phosphorescence, and fluorescence spectra. The dimer’s combination of electronic degeneracy and conjugation result in a higher absorption intensity at longer wavelengths than triphenylamine, which could pave the way for future pivotal research in the rational design of OSMs for organic solar cells by allowing simultaneous absorption intensity to increase and wavelength tunability. A discussion was made on the analysis of coherent double excitations unique to Wannier OSM dimers.


---
# Sulfonated Benzo[c]cinnolines for Alkaline Redox-Flow Batteries

## 碱性氧化还原液流电池用磺化苯并 [c] 西诺兰

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-zrt0b?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Aqueous organic redox-flow batteries (RFBs) are promising for grid-scale energy storage, but developing stable, low-cost electrolytes remains challenging. Herein, azobenzenes were investigated as negative electrolytes because of their low molecular weight and commercial availability. The electrochemical properties and cycling performance of methyl red, an azobenzene dye, were evaluated under alkaline conditions. Analyzing the decomposition products revealed degradation through a hydrazo bond cleavage. To attenuate degradation, a more structurally rigid cis-azobenzene with connected aromatic rings, known as benzo[c]cinnoline (BC), was tested. The sulfonation of BC enabled a higher aqueous solubility, with the di-sulfonated product (ds-BC) exhibiting a reduction potential of (−0.84 V vs Ag/AgCl). In full cells, ds-BC was paired with ferrocyanide-ferricyanide, producing a 1.11 V battery with a capacity fade of 0.77%/day. Density functional theory calculations also predict that reduced BCs exhibit greater thermodynamic stability than azobenzenes. This work introduces benzo[c]cinnoline as a promising molecular scaffold for RFBs.


---
# Access to Arynes from Arenes via Formal Dehydrogenation: Increased Efficiency and Scope, Synthetic Applications and Mechanistic Analysis

## 通过正式脱氢从芳烃中获得芳烃: 提高效率和范围，合成应用和机理分析

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-04r0l?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Arynes undergo a wide range of diverse chemical transformations making them highly versatile reactive in-termediates for organic synthesis. Access to arynes has long been dominated by pre-functionalized reagents such as the venerable o-trimethylsilylaryl triflate class of substrates. However, a move toward the development of methods to access arynes that are both mild and efficient has prompted research into aryl “onium” aryne precursors. We have leveraged aryl “onium” species as intermediates in an overall net dehydrogenation of simple arenes as an efficient way to generate and trap arynes. Herein, we describe two strategies to achieve mild and efficient access to arynes. 1) The development of a one-pot method that converts simple arenes into aryl thianthrenium salts and uses them in situ to generate arynes; the net transformation of arene to trapped aryne is achieved within two hours. 2) The development of a two-step process to convert arenes into aryl(Mes)iodonium salts and ultimately trapped arynes to expand the scope of arenes compatible; the net transformation is complete within four hours. Mechanistic analysis through competition experiments, deuterium kinetic isotope effects (DKIE) and Density Functional Theory (DFT) provide key insight into the similarity and differences of the two approaches described in this work and yield a user’s guide for selecting the appropriate strategy based on the arene.


---
# Harnessing the Crystal Structures of Perfluoroiodoarenes (PFIArs) for the Design of Halogen-Bond Donor Catalysts

## 利用全氟碘芳烃 (PFIArs) 的晶体结构设计卤键供体催化剂

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2023-sq0fl-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

This study investigates the use of perfluoroiodoarenes (PFIArs) as halogen-bond (X-bond) donors in anion-binding catalysis, focusing on the design and effectiveness of two-point X-bond donor catalysts. A comprehensive analysis was carried out, including crystal structure determination, density functional theory (DFT) calculations, and binding constant (K) measurements, to assess catalyst performance. While structural parameters, such as dihedral angles and C–I bond lengths, demonstrated strong correlations between the crystal structures and computed models, their relationship with K values and reaction yields was weaker. Correlation analysis demonstrated that the Gibbs free energy (ΔG) values of the chloride (Cl–) complexes were more strongly correlated with the K values (r = +0.74) and moderately correlated with the yields (r = +0.52), compared to atomic distances. The two-point X-bond design, exemplified by catalysts such as 1a-syn, exhibited superior Cl–-binding ability, with a K value of 9.3 × 103 M–1, a 40-fold increase compared to C6F5I. The findings highlight that, while structural information can be deduced from both crystal and computational data, precise conformational control, as indicated by ΔG values, is a more reliable predictor of catalytic performance. These results provide important quantitative insights for the development of efficient X-bond-driven organocatalysts, underscoring the critical role of ΔG values in designing high-performance catalysts.


---
# Alkyl Sulfonyl Fluorides as Ambiphiles in the Stereoselective, Palladium(II)-Catalyzed Cyclopropanation of Unactivated Alkenes

## 在未活化的烯烃的立体选择性，钯 (II) 催化的环丙烷化反应中，烷基磺酰氟作为两亲物

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-pdplt?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

The ambiphilic reactivity of alkyl sulfonyl fluorides in the stereoselective synthesis of diverse cyclopropanes from ole-fins under palladium(II) catalysis is presented. The sulfonyl fluoride functionality serves as both an acidifying group and an internal oxidant within the ambiphile, enabling the successive carbopalladation and oxidative addition steps in the catalytic cycle, respectively. The transformation grants access to cis-substituted cyclopropanes and exhibits broad compatibility with various alkyl sulfonyl fluorides, including those bearing –CN, –CO2R, isoxazolyl, pyrazolyl, and aryl groups. With internal alkene substrates, 1,2-3-trisubstituted cyclopropanes that are otherwise challenging to synthesize are formed in good to moderate yield and predictable diastereoselectivity. Detailed mechanistic insights from reaction progress kinetic analysis (RPKA) and density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the SN2-type C–SO2F oxidative addition is the turnover-limiting and diastereoselectivity-determining step.

