# Topological Modes in Monitored Quantum Dynamics

## 受监控的量子动力学中的拓扑模式

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04191

arXiv:2411.04191v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Dynamical quantum systems both driven by unitary evolutions and monitored through measurements have proved to be fertile ground for exploring new dynamical quantum matters. While the entanglement structure and symmetry properties of monitored systems have been intensively studied, the role of topology in monitored dynamics is much less explored. In this work, we investigate novel topological phenomena in the monitored dynamics through the lens of free-fermion systems. Free-fermion monitored dynamics were previously shown to be unified with the Anderson localization problem under the Altland-Zirnbauer symmetry classification. Guided by this unification, we identify the topological area-law-entangled phases in the former setting through the topological classification of disordered insulators and superconductors in the latter. As examples, we focus on 1+1D free-fermion monitored dynamics in two symmetry classes, DIII and A. We construct quantum circuit models to study different topological area-law phases and their domain walls in the respective symmetry classes. We find that the domain wall between topologically distinct area-law phases hosts dynamical topological modes whose entanglement is protected from being quenched by the measurements in the monitored dynamics. We demonstrate how to manipulate these topological modes by programming the domain-wall dynamics. In particular, for topological modes in class DIII, which behave as unmeasured Majorana modes, we devise a protocol to braid them and study the entanglement generated in the braiding process.


---
# Complexity of Local Quantum Circuits under Nonunital Noise

## 非单位噪声下局部量子电路的复杂性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04819

arXiv:2411.04819v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: It is widely accepted that noisy quantum devices are limited to logarithmic depth circuits unless mid-circuit measurements and error correction are employed. However, this conclusion holds only for unital error channels, such as depolarizing noise. Building on the idea of the "quantum refrigerator" [Ben-Or, Gottesman and Hassidim (2013)], we improve upon previous results and show that geometrically local circuits in the presence of nonunital noise, in any dimension $d\geq 1$, can correct errors without mid-circuit measurements and extend computation to any depth, with only polylogarithmic overhead in the depth and the number of qubits. This implies that local quantum dynamics subjected to sufficiently weak nonunital noise is computationally universal and nearly as hard to simulate as noiseless dynamics. Additionally, we quantify the contraction property of local random circuits in the presence of nonunital noise.

