# Adjusting accelerators with help from machine learning

## 借助机器学习的帮助调整加速器

Link: https://phys.org/news/2024-11-adjusting-machine.html

Banks of computer screens stacked two and three high line the walls. The screens are covered with numbers and graphs that are unintelligible to an untrained eye. But they tell a story to the operators staffing the particle accelerator control room. The numbers describe how the accelerator is speeding up tiny particles to smash into targets or other particles.


---
# Invisible touch: Researchers give AI the ability to feel and measure surfaces

## 隐形触摸: 研究人员赋予AI感觉和测量表面的能力

Link: https://phys.org/news/2024-11-invisible-ai-ability-surfaces.html

AI-based technologies are rapidly learning to see, converse, calculate and create. One thing they still don't do well, however, is measure or "feel" surfaces—a purely mechanical function.


---
# Dynamics of convolutional recurrent neural networks near their critical point

## 卷积递归神经网络在临界点附近的动力学

Link: http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.6.043152

Author(s): Aditi Chandra and Marcelo O. Magnasco<br /><p>We examine the dynamical properties of a single-layer convolutional recurrent network with a smooth sigmoidal activation function, for small values of the inputs and when the convolution kernel is unitary, so all eigenvalues lie exactly at the unit circle. Such networks have a variety of hallmark pr…</p><br />[Phys. Rev. Research 6, 043152] Published Mon Nov 18, 2024


---
# Automated design of digital filters using convolutional neural networks for extracting ringdown gravitational waves

## 使用卷积神经网络自动设计数字滤波器以提取振铃引力波

Link: http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ad8b94

The observation of gravitational waves is expected to allow new tests of general relativity to be performed. As the gravitational wave signal is hidden by detector noise in observed data, a method to reduce noise is required to analyze the ringdown phase of gravitational wave signals. Recently, some noise reduction methods based on a neural network have been proposed; however, the results of these methods must be considered with caution because the output can contain spurious components. To overcome this limitation, in this study, we developed a neural network–based method to design optimal digital filters for extracting ringdown gravitational wave signals. In this method, no spurious components appear in the output because the digital filters reduce the noise. We conducted simulations with waveforms of gravitational waves from binary black hole coalescence and confirmed that the proposed method designs appropriate filters that reduce detector noise.


---
# Revealing the Evolution of Order in Materials Microstructures Using Multi-Modal Computer Vision

## 使用多模态计算机视觉揭示材料微观结构中的有序演变

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09896

arXiv:2411.09896v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The development of high-performance materials for microelectronics, energy storage, and extreme environments depends on our ability to describe and direct property-defining microstructural order. Our present understanding is typically derived from laborious manual analysis of imaging and spectroscopy data, which is difficult to scale, challenging to reproduce, and lacks the ability to reveal latent associations needed for mechanistic models. Here, we demonstrate a multi-modal machine learning (ML) approach to describe order from electron microscopy analysis of the complex oxide La$_{1-x}$Sr$_x$FeO$_3$. We construct a hybrid pipeline based on fully and semi-supervised classification, allowing us to evaluate both the characteristics of each data modality and the value each modality adds to the ensemble. We observe distinct differences in the performance of uni- and multi-modal models, from which we draw general lessons in describing crystal order using computer vision.


---
# Energy-GNoME: A Living Database of Selected Materials for Energy Applications

## Energy-GNoME: 用于能源应用的选定材料的生活数据库

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10125

arXiv:2411.10125v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Artificial Intelligence (AI) in materials science is driving significant advancements in the discovery of advanced materials for energy applications. The recent GNoME protocol identifies over 380,000 novel stable crystals. From this, we identify over 33,000 materials with potential as energy materials forming the Energy-GNoME database. Leveraging Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) tools, our protocol mitigates cross-domain data bias using feature spaces to identify potential candidates for thermoelectric materials, novel battery cathodes, and novel perovskites. Classifiers with both structural and compositional features identify domains of applicability, where we expect enhanced accuracy of the regressors. Such regressors are trained to predict key materials properties like, thermoelectric figure of merit (zT), band gap (Eg), and cathode voltage ($\Delta V_c$). This method significantly narrows the pool of potential candidates, serving as an efficient guide for experimental and computational chemistry investigations and accelerating the discovery of materials suited for electricity generation, energy storage and conversion.


---
# Reinforced Disentanglers on Random Unitary Circuits

## 随机unit电路上的增强型解缠结器

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09784

arXiv:2411.09784v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We search for efficient disentanglers on random Clifford circuits of two-qubit gates arranged in a brick-wall pattern, using the proximal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm \cite{schulman2017proximalpolicyoptimizationalgorithms}. Disentanglers are defined as a set of projective measurements inserted between consecutive entangling layers. An efficient disentangler is a set of projective measurements that minimize the averaged von Neumann entropy of the final state with the least number of total projections possible. The problem is naturally amenable to reinforcement learning techniques by taking the binary matrix representing the projective measurements along the circuit as our state, and actions as bit flipping operations on this binary matrix that add or delete measurements at specified locations. We give rewards to our agent dependent on the averaged von Neumann entropy of the final state and the configuration of measurements, such that the agent learns the optimal policy that will take him from the initial state of no measurements to the optimal measurement state that minimizes the entanglement entropy. Our results indicate that the number of measurements required to disentangle a random quantum circuit is drastically less than the numerical results of measurement-induced phase transition papers. Additionally, the reinforcement learning procedure enables us to characterize the pattern of optimal disentanglers, which is not possible in the works of measurement-induced phase transitions.


---
# Deep learning robotics using self-supervised spatial differentiation drive autonomous contact-based semiconductor characterization

## 使用自监督空间差异的深度学习机器人驱动基于接触的自主半导体表征

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09892

arXiv:2411.09892v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Integrating autonomous contact-based robotic characterization into self-driving laboratories can enhance measurement quality, reliability, and throughput. While deep learning models support robust autonomy, current methods lack pixel-precision positioning and require extensive labeled data. To overcome these challenges, we propose a self-supervised convolutional neural network with a spatially differentiable loss function, incorporating shape priors to refine predictions of optimal robot contact poses for semiconductor characterization. This network improves valid pose generation by 20.0%, relative to existing models. We demonstrate our network's performance by driving a 4-degree-of-freedom robot to characterize photoconductivity at 3,025 predicted poses across a gradient of perovskite compositions, achieving throughputs over 125 measurements per hour. Spatially mapping photoconductivity onto each drop-casted film reveals regions of inhomogeneity. With this self-supervised deep learning-driven robotic system, we enable high-precision and reliable automation of contact-based characterization techniques at high throughputs, thereby allowing the measurement of previously inaccessible yet important semiconductor properties for self-driving laboratories.


---
# Self-learning path integral hybrid Monte Carlo with mixed ab initio and machine learning potentials for modeling nuclear quantum effects in water

## 具有从头算和机器学习潜力的自学习路径积分混合蒙特卡洛，用于模拟水中的核量子效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10122

arXiv:2411.10122v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The introduction of machine learned potentials (MLPs) has greatly expanded the space available for studying Nuclear Quantum Effects computationally with ab initio path integral (PI) accuracy, with the MLPs' promise of an accuracy comparable to that of ab initio at a fraction of the cost. One of the challenges in development of MLPs is the need for a large and diverse training set calculated by ab initio methods. This data set should ideally cover the entire phase space, while not searching this space using ab initio methods, as this would be counterproductive and generally intractable with respect to computational time.In this paper, we present the self-learning PI hybrid Monte Carlo Method using a mixed ab initio and ML potential (SL-PIHMC-MIX), where the mixed potential allows for the study of larger systems and the extension of the original SL-HMC method [Nagai et al., Phys. Rev. B 102, 041124 (2020)] to PI methods and larger systems. While the MLPs generated by this method can be directly applied to run long-time ML-PIMD simulations, we demonstrate that using PIHMC-MIX with the trained MLPs allows for an exact reproduction of the structure obtained from ab initio PIMD. Specifically, we find that the PIHMC-MIX simulations require only 5,000 evaluations of the 32-bead structure, compared to the 100,000 evaluations needed for the ab initio PIMD result.


---
# Unifying view of fermionic neural network quantum states: From neural network backflow to hidden fermion determinant states

## 费米子神经网络量子态的统一观点: 从神经网络回流到隐藏的费米子行列式状态

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09450

arXiv:2311.09450v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Among the variational wave functions for Fermionic Hamiltonians, neural network backflow (NNBF) and hidden fermion determinant states (HFDS) are two prominent classes to provide accurate approximations to the ground state. Here we develop a unifying view of fermionic neural quantum states casting them all in the framework of NNBF. NNBF wave-functions have configuration-dependent single-particle orbitals (SPO) which are parameterized by a neural network. We show that HFDS with $r$ hidden fermions can be written as a NNBF with an $r \times r$ determinant Jastrow and a restricted low-rank $r$ additive correction to the SPO. Furthermore, we show that in NNBF wave-functions, such determinant Jastrow's can generically be removed at the cost of further complicating the additive SPO correction increasing its rank by $r$. We numerically and analytically compare additive SPO corrections generated by the product of two matrices with inner dimension $r$. We find that larger $r$ wave-functions span a larger space and give evidence that simpler and more direct updates to the SPO's tend to be more expressive and better energetically. These suggest the standard NNBF approach is preferred amongst other related choices. Finally, we uncover that the row-selection used to select single-particle orbitals allows significant sign and amplitude modulation between nearby configurations and is partially responsible for the quality of NNBF and HFDS wave-functions.


---
# Simultaneous Optimized Mechanical Stiffness and Cell Growth on Scaffold by Morphology Learning

## 通过形态学习同时优化支架上的机械刚度和细胞生长

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23295

arXiv:2410.23295v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: The morphology of microstructures in scaffolds is a critical factor influencing both mechanical properties and biological performance, such as cell growth, in bone tissue engineering. While metamaterials with optimized mechanical properties, such as hyperelasticity, thermal efficiency, or energy absorption, have been designed through complex microstructural geometry with the help of numerical simulation of multi-physics, optimizing biological performance alongside these physical traits remains a significant challenge. This is primarily because biological performance must be evaluated through laboratory experiments. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach that simultaneously optimizes mechanical stiffness and cell growth effectiveness through a data-driven morphology learning method. Our approach effectively extracts and learns shape patterns from a specifically selected dataset of microstructures recognized for their superior cell growth performance. We then integrate these patterns into a computational framework based on topology optimization, enabling the generation of new microstructures that maintain high levels of cell growth while enhancing mechanical stiffness. Using this morphology learning-based method, we identified a scaffold design for bone tissue engineering that demonstrates a significant improvement in both mechanical stiffness (by 29.69%) and cell proliferation (by 37.05% on Day 7 and 33.30% on Day 14). From a broader perspective, this work introduces a general approach to integrating factors that cannot be directly evaluated through numerical simulations into structural optimization. This approach opens up many new possibilities for designing structures that balance diverse and complex requirements, making it applicable to a broader range of fields from biomedical engineering to product design.


---
# Scalable molecular simulation of electrolyte solutions with quantum chemical accuracy

## 具有量子化学精度的电解质溶液的可扩展分子模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12535

arXiv:2310.12535v4 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Electrolyte solutions play critical role in a vast range of important applications, yet an accurate and scalable method of predicting their properties without fitting to experiment has remained out of reach, despite over a century of effort. Here, we combine state-of-the-art density functional theory and equivariant neural network potentials to demonstrate this capability, reproducing key structural, thermodynamic, and kinetic properties. We show that neural network potentials (NNPs) can be recursively trained on a subset of their own output to enable coarse-grained/continuum-solvent molecular simulations that can access much longer timescales than possible with all atom simulations. We observe the surprising formation of Li cation dimers along with identical anion-anion pairing of chloride and bromide anions. Finally, we reproduce simulate the crystal phase and infinite dilution pairing free energies despite being trained only on moderate concentration solutions. This approach should be scaled to build a greatly expanded database of electrolyte solution properties than currently exists.


---
# Graph Neural Networks Do Not Always Oversmooth

## 图神经网络并不总是过平滑

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02269

arXiv:2406.02269v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Graph neural networks (GNNs) have emerged as powerful tools for processing relational data in applications. However, GNNs suffer from the problem of oversmoothing, the property that the features of all nodes exponentially converge to the same vector over layers, prohibiting the design of deep GNNs. In this work we study oversmoothing in graph convolutional networks (GCNs) by using their Gaussian process (GP) equivalence in the limit of infinitely many hidden features. By generalizing methods from conventional deep neural networks (DNNs), we can describe the distribution of features at the output layer of deep GCNs in terms of a GP: as expected, we find that typical parameter choices from the literature lead to oversmoothing. The theory, however, allows us to identify a new, non-oversmoothing phase: if the initial weights of the network have sufficiently large variance, GCNs do not oversmooth, and node features remain informative even at large depth. We demonstrate the validity of this prediction in finite-size GCNs by training a linear classifier on their output. Moreover, using the linearization of the GCN GP, we generalize the concept of propagation depth of information from DNNs to GCNs. This propagation depth diverges at the transition between the oversmoothing and non-oversmoothing phase. We test the predictions of our approach and find good agreement with finite-size GCNs. Initializing GCNs near the transition to the non-oversmoothing phase, we obtain networks which are both deep and expressive.


---
# From Mesh to Neural Nets: A Multi-Method Evaluation of Physics-Informed Neural Networks and Galerkin Finite Element Method for Solving Nonlinear Convection-Reaction-Diffusion Equations

## 从网格到神经网络: 求解非线性对流-反应-扩散方程的物理通知神经网络和Galerkin有限元方法的多方法评估

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09704

arXiv:2411.09704v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Non-linear convection-reaction-diffusion (CRD) partial differential equations (PDEs) are crucial for modeling complex phenomena in fields such as biology, ecology, population dynamics, physics, and engineering. Numerical approximation of these non-linear systems is essential due to the challenges of obtaining exact solutions. Traditionally, the Galerkin finite element method (GFEM) has been the standard computational tool for solving these PDEs. With the advancements in machine learning, Physics-Informed Neural Network (PINN) has emerged as a promising alternative for approximating non-linear PDEs.
  In this study, we compare the performance of PINN and GFEM by solving four distinct one-dimensional CRD problems with varying initial and boundary conditions and evaluate the performance of PINN over GFEM. This evaluation metrics includes error estimates, and visual representations of the solutions, supported by statistical methods such as the root mean squared error (RMSE), the standard deviation of error, the the Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test and the coefficient of variation (CV) test.
  Our findings reveal that while both methods achieve solutions close to the analytical results, PINN demonstrate superior accuracy and efficiency. PINN achieved significantly lower RMSE values and smaller standard deviations for Burgers' equation, Fisher's equation, and Newell-Whitehead-Segel equation, indicating higher accuracy and greater consistency. While GFEM shows slightly better accuracy for the Burgers-Huxley equation, its performance was less consistent over time. In contrast, PINN exhibit more reliable and robust performance, highlighting their potential as a cutting-edge approach for solving non-linear PDEs.


---
# Self-learning path integral hybrid Monte Carlo with mixed ab initio and machine learning potentials for modeling nuclear quantum effects in water

## 具有从头算和机器学习潜力的自学习路径积分混合蒙特卡洛，用于模拟水中的核量子效应

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10122

arXiv:2411.10122v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The introduction of machine learned potentials (MLPs) has greatly expanded the space available for studying Nuclear Quantum Effects computationally with ab initio path integral (PI) accuracy, with the MLPs' promise of an accuracy comparable to that of ab initio at a fraction of the cost. One of the challenges in development of MLPs is the need for a large and diverse training set calculated by ab initio methods. This data set should ideally cover the entire phase space, while not searching this space using ab initio methods, as this would be counterproductive and generally intractable with respect to computational time.In this paper, we present the self-learning PI hybrid Monte Carlo Method using a mixed ab initio and ML potential (SL-PIHMC-MIX), where the mixed potential allows for the study of larger systems and the extension of the original SL-HMC method [Nagai et al., Phys. Rev. B 102, 041124 (2020)] to PI methods and larger systems. While the MLPs generated by this method can be directly applied to run long-time ML-PIMD simulations, we demonstrate that using PIHMC-MIX with the trained MLPs allows for an exact reproduction of the structure obtained from ab initio PIMD. Specifically, we find that the PIHMC-MIX simulations require only 5,000 evaluations of the 32-bead structure, compared to the 100,000 evaluations needed for the ab initio PIMD result.


---
# Remote-sensing based control of 3D magnetic fields using machine learning for in-operando applications

## 使用机器学习在操作中应用基于遥感的3D磁场控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10374

arXiv:2411.10374v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: In-operando techniques enable real-time measurement of intricate physical properties at the micro- and nano-scale under external stimuli, allowing the study of a wide range of materials and functionalities. In nanomagnetism, in-operando techniques greatly benefit from precise three-dimensional (3D) magnetic field control, enabling access to complex magnetic states forming in systems where multiple energies are set to compete with each other. However, achieving such precision is challenging and uncommon, as specific applications impose constraints on the type and geometry of magnetic field sources, limiting their capabilities.
  Here, we introduce an approach that leverages machine learning algorithms to achieve precise 3D magnetic field control using a hexapole electromagnet that is composed of three independent, non-collinear dipole electromagnets. In our experimental setup, magnetic field sensors are placed at a distance from the sample position due to inherent constraints, leading to indirect field measurements that differ from the magnetic field experienced by the sample. We find that the existing relationship between the remote and sample frames of reference is non-linear, thus requiring a more complex calibration method. To address this, we employ a multi-layer perceptron neural network that processes multiple inputs from a dynamic magnetic field sequence, effectively capturing the time-dependent non-linear field response. The network achieves high calibration accuracy and demonstrates exceptional generalization to unseen magnetic field sequences. This study highlights the significant potential of machine learning in achieving high-precision control and calibration, crucial for in-operando experiments where direct measurement at the point of interest is not possible.


---
# SymbolFit: Automatic Parametric Modeling with Symbolic Regression

## SymbolFit: 使用符号回归进行自动参数化建模

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09851

arXiv:2411.09851v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We introduce SymbolFit, a framework that automates parametric modeling by using symbolic regression to perform a machine-search for functions that fit the data, while simultaneously providing uncertainty estimates in a single run. Traditionally, constructing a parametric model to accurately describe binned data has been a manual and iterative process, requiring an adequate functional form to be determined before the fit can be performed. The main challenge arises when the appropriate functional forms cannot be derived from first principles, especially when there is no underlying true closed-form function for the distribution. In this work, we address this problem by utilizing symbolic regression, a machine learning technique that explores a vast space of candidate functions without needing a predefined functional form, treating the functional form itself as a trainable parameter. Our approach is demonstrated in data analysis applications in high-energy physics experiments at the CERN Large Hadron Collider (LHC). We demonstrate its effectiveness and efficiency using five real proton-proton collision datasets from new physics searches at the LHC, namely the background modeling in resonance searches for high-mass dijet, trijet, paired-dijet, diphoton, and dimuon events. We also validate the framework using several toy datasets with one and more variables.


---
# Uncertainty Propagation within Chained Models for Machine Learning Reconstruction of Neutrino-LAr Interactions

## 用于中微子-LAr相互作用的机器学习重建的链式模型内的不确定性传播

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09864

arXiv:2411.09864v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Sequential or chained models are increasingly prevalent in machine learning for scientific applications, due to their flexibility and ease of development. Chained models are particularly useful when a task is separable into distinct steps with a hierarchy of meaningful intermediate representations. In reliability-critical tasks, it is important to quantify the confidence of model inferences. However, chained models pose an additional challenge for uncertainty quantification, especially when input uncertainties need to be propagated. In such cases, a fully uncertainty-aware chain of models is required, where each step accepts a probability distribution over the input space, and produces a probability distribution over the output space. In this work, we present a case study for adapting a single model within an existing chain, designed for reconstruction within neutrino-Argon interactions, developed for neutrino oscillation experiments such as MicroBooNE, ICARUS, and the future DUNE experiment. We test the performance of an input uncertainty-enabled model against an uncertainty-blinded model using a method for generating synthetic noise. By comparing these two, we assess the increase in inference quality achieved by exposing models to upstream uncertainty estimates.


---
# Physics-informed neural networks need a physicist to be accurate: the case of mass and heat transport in Fischer-Tropsch catalyst particles

## 具有物理学知识的神经网络需要物理学家才能准确: 费托催化剂颗粒中质量和热传递的情况

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10048

arXiv:2411.10048v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs) have emerged as an influential technology, merging the swift and automated capabilities of machine learning with the precision and dependability of simulations grounded in theoretical physics. PINNs are often employed to solve algebraic or differential equations to replace some or even all steps of multi-stage computational workflows, leading to their significant speed-up. However, wide adoption of PINNs is still hindered by reliability issues, particularly at extreme ends of the input parameter ranges. In this study, we demonstrate this in the context of a system of coupled non-linear differential reaction-diffusion and heat transfer equations related to Fischer-Tropsch synthesis, which are solved by a finite-difference method with a PINN used in evaluating their source terms. It is shown that the testing strategies traditionally used to assess the accuracy of neural networks as function approximators can overlook the peculiarities which ultimately cause instabilities of the finite-difference solver. We propose a domain knowledge-based modifications to the PINN architecture ensuring its correct asymptotic behavior. When combined with an improved numerical scheme employed as an initial guess generator, the proposed modifications are shown to recover the overall stability of the simulations, while preserving the speed-up brought by PINN as the workflow component. We discuss the possible applications of the proposed hybrid transport equation solver in context of chemical reactors simulations.


---
# FengWu-W2S: A deep learning model for seamless weather-to-subseasonal forecast of global atmosphere

## FengWu-W2S: 全球大气天气亚季节无缝预报的深度学习模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10191

arXiv:2411.10191v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Seamless forecasting that produces warning information at continuum timescales based on only one system is a long-standing pursuit for weather-climate service. While the rapid advancement of deep learning has induced revolutionary changes in classical forecasting field, current efforts are still focused on building separate AI models for weather and climate forecasts. To explore the seamless forecasting ability based on one AI model, we propose FengWu-Weather to Subseasonal (FengWu-W2S), which builds on the FengWu global weather forecast model and incorporates an ocean-atmosphere-land coupling structure along with a diverse perturbation strategy. FengWu-W2S can generate 6-hourly atmosphere forecasts extending up to 42 days through an autoregressive and seamless manner. Our hindcast results demonstrate that FengWu-W2S reliably predicts atmospheric conditions out to 3-6 weeks ahead, enhancing predictive capabilities for global surface air temperature, precipitation, geopotential height and intraseasonal signals such as the Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) and North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). Moreover, our ablation experiments on forecast error growth from daily to seasonal timescales reveal potential pathways for developing AI-based integrated system for seamless weather-climate forecasting in the future.


---
# A Realistic Collimated X-Ray Image Simulation Pipeline

## 一种逼真的准直x射线图像模拟流水线

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10308

arXiv:2411.10308v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Collimator detection remains a challenging task in X-ray systems with unreliable or non-available information about the detectors position relative to the source. This paper presents a physically motivated image processing pipeline for simulating the characteristics of collimator shadows in X-ray images. By generating randomized labels for collimator shapes and locations, incorporating scattered radiation simulation, and including Poisson noise, the pipeline enables the expansion of limited datasets for training deep neural networks. We validate the proposed pipeline by a qualitative and quantitative comparison against real collimator shadows. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that utilizing simulated data within our deep learning framework not only serves as a suitable substitute for actual collimators but also enhances the generalization performance when applied to real-world data.


---
# Forecast of solar activity based on mean-field dynamo model and neural network

## 基于平均场发电机模型和神经网络的太阳活动预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10380

arXiv:2411.10380v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We discuss a prediction of the solar activity on a short time-scale applying the method based on a combination of a nonlinear mean-field dynamo model and the artificial neural network. The artificial neural network which serves as a correction scheme for the forecast, uses the currently available observational data (e.g., the 13 month running average of the observed solar sunspot numbers) and the dynamo model output. The nonlinear mean-field $\alpha\,\Omega$ dynamo produces the large-scale magnetic flux which is redistributed by negative effective magnetic pressure instability (NEMPI) producing sunspots and active regions. The nonlinear mean-field dynamo model includes algebraic nonlinearity (caused by the feedback of the growing magnetic field on the plasma motion) and dynamic nonlinearities (related to the dynamics of the magnetic helicity of small-scale magnetic field). We compare the forecast errors with a horizon of 1, 6, 12 and 18 months, for different forecast methods, with the same corrections on the current monthly observations. Our forecast is in good agreement with the observed solar activity, the forecast error is almost stably small over short-medium ranges of forecasting windows. Despite a strong level of chaotic component in the solar magnetic activity we present quantitative evidence that the solar activity on a short range can be stably well predicted, by the joint use of the physically based model with the neural network. This result may have an immediate practical implementation for predictions of various phenomena of solar activity and other astrophysical processes, so may be of interest to a broad community.


---
# Scalable molecular simulation of electrolyte solutions with quantum chemical accuracy

## 具有量子化学精度的电解质溶液的可扩展分子模拟

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12535

arXiv:2310.12535v4 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Electrolyte solutions play critical role in a vast range of important applications, yet an accurate and scalable method of predicting their properties without fitting to experiment has remained out of reach, despite over a century of effort. Here, we combine state-of-the-art density functional theory and equivariant neural network potentials to demonstrate this capability, reproducing key structural, thermodynamic, and kinetic properties. We show that neural network potentials (NNPs) can be recursively trained on a subset of their own output to enable coarse-grained/continuum-solvent molecular simulations that can access much longer timescales than possible with all atom simulations. We observe the surprising formation of Li cation dimers along with identical anion-anion pairing of chloride and bromide anions. Finally, we reproduce simulate the crystal phase and infinite dilution pairing free energies despite being trained only on moderate concentration solutions. This approach should be scaled to build a greatly expanded database of electrolyte solution properties than currently exists.


---
# Learning rheological parameters of non-Newtonian fluids from velocimetry data

## 从测速数据中学习非牛顿流体的流变参数

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02604

arXiv:2408.02604v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: We solve a Bayesian inverse Navier-Stokes (N-S) problem that assimilates velocimetry data in order to jointly reconstruct the flow field and learn the unknown N-S parameters. By incorporating a Carreau shear-thinning viscosity model into the N-S problem, we devise an algorithm that learns the most likely Carreau parameters of a shear-thinning fluid, and estimates their uncertainties, from velocimetry data alone. We then conduct a flow-MRI experiment to obtain velocimetry data of an axisymmetric laminar jet through an idealised medical device (FDA nozzle) for a blood analogue fluid. We show that the algorithm can successfully reconstruct the flow field by learning the most likely Carreau parameters, and that the learned parameters are in very good agreement with rheometry measurements. The algorithm accepts any algebraic effective viscosity model, as long as the model is differentiable, and it can be extended to more complicated non-Newtonian fluids (e.g. Oldroyd-B fluid) if a viscoelastic model is incorporated into the N-S problem.


---
# Unlocking Real-Time Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging: Multi-Pixel Parallelism for FPGA-Accelerated Processing

## 解锁实时荧光寿命成像: 用于FPGA加速处理的多像素并行

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07364

arXiv:2410.07364v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Fluorescence lifetime imaging (FLI) is a widely used technique in the biomedical field for measuring the decay times of fluorescent molecules, providing insights into metabolic states, protein interactions, and ligand-receptor bindings. However, its broader application in fast biological processes, such as dynamic activity monitoring, and clinical use, such as in guided surgery, is limited by long data acquisition times and computationally demanding data processing. While deep learning has reduced post-processing times, time-resolved data acquisition remains a bottleneck for real-time applications. To address this, we propose a method to achieve real-time FLI using an FPGA-based hardware accelerator. Specifically, we implemented a GRU-based sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) model on an FPGA board compatible with time-resolved cameras. The GRU model balances accurate processing with the resource constraints of FPGAs, which have limited DSP units and BRAM. The limited memory and computational resources on the FPGA require efficient scheduling of operations and memory allocation to deploy deep learning models for low-latency applications. We address these challenges by using STOMP, a queue-based discrete-event simulator that automates and optimizes task scheduling and memory management on hardware. By integrating a GRU-based Seq2Seq model and its compressed version, called Seq2SeqLite, generated through knowledge distillation, we were able to process multiple pixels in parallel, reducing latency compared to sequential processing. We explore various levels of parallelism to achieve an optimal balance between performance and resource utilization. Our results indicate that the proposed techniques achieved a 17.7x and 52.0x speedup over manual scheduling for the Seq2Seq model and the Seq2SeqLite model, respectively.


---
# Graph Neural Networks and Differential Equations: A hybrid approach for data assimilation of fluid flows

## 图神经网络和微分方程: 用于流体流数据同化的混合方法

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09476

arXiv:2411.09476v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: This study presents a novel hybrid approach that combines Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) with Reynolds-Averaged Navier Stokes (RANS) equations to enhance the accuracy of mean flow reconstruction across a range of fluid dynamics applications. Traditional purely data-driven Neural Networks (NNs) models, often struggle maintaining physical consistency. Moreover, they typically require large datasets to achieve reliable performances. The GNN framework, which naturally handles unstructured data such as complex geometries in Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), is here integrated with RANS equations as a physical baseline model. The methodology leverages the adjoint method, enabling the use of RANS-derived gradients as optimization terms in the GNN training process. This ensures that the learned model adheres to the governing physics, maintaining physical consistency while improving the prediction accuracy. We test our approach on multiple CFD scenarios, including cases involving generalization with respect to the Reynolds number, sparse measurements, denoising and inpainting of missing portions of the mean flow. The results demonstrate significant improvements in the accuracy of the reconstructed mean flow compared to purely data-driven models, using limited amounts of data in the training dataset. The key strengths of this study are the integration of physical laws into the training process of the GNN, and the ability to achieve high-accuracy predictions with a limited amount of data, making this approach particularly valuable for applications in fluid dynamics where data is often scarce.


---
# Harnessing Machine Learning for Single-Shot Measurement of Free Electron Laser Pulse Power

## 利用机器学习进行自由电子激光脉冲功率的单次测量

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09468

arXiv:2411.09468v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Electron beam accelerators are essential in many scientific and technological fields. Their operation relies heavily on the stability and precision of the electron beam. Traditional diagnostic techniques encounter difficulties in addressing the complex and dynamic nature of electron beams. Particularly in the context of free-electron lasers (FELs), it is fundamentally impossible to measure the lasing-on and lasingoff electron power profiles for a single electron bunch. This is a crucial hurdle in the exact reconstruction of the photon pulse profile. To overcome this hurdle, we developed a machine learning model that predicts the temporal power profile of the electron bunch in the lasing-off regime using machine parameters that can be obtained when lasing is on. The model was statistically validated and showed superior predictions compared to the state-of-the-art batch calibrations. The work we present here is a critical element for a virtual pulse reconstruction diagnostic (VPRD) tool designed to reconstruct the power profile of individual photon pulses without requiring repeated measurements in the lasing-off regime. This promises to significantly enhance the diagnostic capabilities in FELs at large.


---
# Optimizing Multiple Electronic Functions of Organic Electronics Materials by Electronic State Informatics

## 利用电子态信息学优化有机电子材料的多重电子功能

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-pzxww?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Organic electrochromic (OEC) materials have garnered significant attention for their potential applications in intelligent devices with curved surfaces.  However, achieving the color purity and optimal oxidation potential for practical OEC device applications remained challenging since both properties are related to multiple electronic states.  This study presents electronic state informatics to realize yellow OEC materials with optimal redox potential (hue = 93.5±5 degree, E(ox)= 0.15±0.05 V vs. Fc/Fc+). More than a million triphenylamine derivatives were screened using a high-precision machine learning model based on semiempirical PM6 molecular orbital calculations.  Synthesizing a target derivative predicted by the model, it was confirmed that the candidate molecule was confirmed to be a pure yellow OEC material (hue = 93.6 degree) with E(ox)= 0.12 V.


---
# Balanced Group Convolution: An Improved Group Convolution Based on Approximability Estimates

## 平衡群卷积: 一种基于逼近估计的改进群卷积

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5384157/latest

The performance of neural networks has been significantly improved by increasing the number of channels in convolutional layers.
However, this increase in performance comes with a higher computational cost, resulting in numerous studies focused on reducing it.
One promising approach to address this issue is group convolution, which effectively reduces the computational cost by grouping channels.
However, to the best of our knowledge, there has been no theoretical analysis on how well the group convolution approximates the standard convolution.
In this paper, we mathematically analyze the approximation of the group convolution to the standard convolution with respect to the number of groups.
Furthermore, we propose a novel variant of the group convolution called \textit{balanced group convolution}, which shows a higher approximation with a small additional computational cost.
We provide experimental results that validate our theoretical findings and demonstrate the superior performance of the balanced group convolution over other variants of group convolution.


---
# Flow Prediction in Sound-Based Uroflowmetry: A Comprehensive Study

## 基于声音的尿流率仪中的流量预测: 一项综合研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5303905/latest

Sound-based uroflowmetry (SU) offers a non-invasive alternative to traditional uroflowmetry (UF) for evaluating lower urinary tract dysfunctions, enabling home-based testing and reducing the need for clinic visits. This study compares SU and UF in estimating urine flow rate and voided volume in 50 male volunteers (aged 18&ndash;60), with UF results from a Minze uroflowmeter as the reference standard. Audio signals recorded during voiding were segmented and machine learning algorithms (gradient boosting, random forest, and support vector machine) estimated flow parameters from three devices: Ultramic384k, Mi A1 smartphone, and Oppo smartwatch. The mean absolute errors (MAE) for flow rate estimation were 2.55, 2.49 and 2.86 ml/s, with R&sup2; values of 84%, 83%, and 79%, respectively. Analysis of the Ultramic384k&rsquo;s frequency range showed that the 0&ndash;8 kHz band contained 83% of significant components, suggesting higher sampling frequencies are unnecessary. A 1000 ms segment size was optimal for balancing computational efficiency and accuracy. Lin&rsquo;s concordance coefficients for urine flow and voided volume using the smartwatch (0&ndash;8 kHz, 1000 ms) were 0.9 and 0.85, respectively, demonstrating that SU is a reliable, cost-effective alternative to UF for estimating key uroflowmetry parameters, with added patient convenience.


---
# A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach to Solving the Digital Billboard Optimal Placement Problem Based on Multi-Source Spatiotemporal Data Fusion

## 基于多源时空数据融合的深度强化学习方法求解数字广告牌优化放置问题

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5372654/latest

The study presents a study on optimizing the spatial location of digital billboards in urban environments using multi-source big data and deep reinforcement learning methods. Focusing on the Fifth Ring Road in Beijing, China, the study aims to solve the Maximum Coverage-Digital Billboard Localization Problem (MC-DBLP) model. This paper describes the data collection and preprocessing process, the use of geo-detectors and attention models, and an evaluation of the effectiveness of deep reinforcement learning methods compared to traditional optimization solvers. The authors propose a new solution model for the digital billboard placement problem. The method is universal and scalable, which can provide a reference for similar problems in other fields. Multi-sourced spatiotemporal data are incorporated to unify the data format of factors and, an attention model multi-decoder (AMMD), Gurobi solver, and a heuristic algorithm are used to solve the problem. The results show that the Gurobi solver produces the best solution results, and the optimal digital billboard locations are obtained. In the future, the authors plan to select more various and complex influencing factors and explore more efficient and accurate algorithm models to better solve location optimization problems.


---
# Adversarial Red Teaming for NIDS:Model-Agnostic Physical-Space Attacks

## NIDS的对抗性红色团队: 与模型无关的物理空间攻击

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5374586/latest

Adversarial examples have been widely studied across domains such as image recognition and speech processing, but their implications for Network Intrusion Detection Systems (NIDS) remain underexplored. This paper introduces the NIDS Robustness Toolbox (NRT), a model-agnostic tool designed to generate adversarial samples for machine learning-based NIDS by directly manipulating network traffic in the physical space. Unlike traditional approaches, our method requires no information about the processing pipeline or underlying model architecture, making it adaptable and highly practical for real-world red teaming. The NRT facilitates the creation of adversarial traffic that disguises malicious intent within realistic network behavior, targeting both flow-based and payloadbased NIDS models. Experimental evaluations demonstrate that these adversarial samples lead to significant declines in detection performance, assessed across multiple metrics including precision, recall, F1-score, evasion, and misclassification rates.These findings reveal substantial vulnerabilities in current NIDS configurations, underscoring the critical need for more resilient, adaptable defenses to withstand sophisticated adversarial threats in real-world deployments.


---
# Multilingual Competency and Academic Performance: A Machine Learning-Based Analysis of the 2022/2023 Somaliland National Primary Exam Data

## 多语言能力和学习成绩: 基于机器学习的2022/2023索马里兰国家小学考试数据分析

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5237882/latest

This study assesses the influence of language proficiency on academic performance in primary education within Somaliland, utilizing data from the 2022/2023 National Primary Exams. Employing a dataset of 20,638 students and applying ten machine learning regression models, the research investigates the impact of Somali, Arabic, and English language skills on overall academic outcomes. The findings reveal that proficiency in these languages significantly contributes to overall performance, with English showing the strongest positive association, followed by Arabic and Somali. Additionally, the study highlights minimal gender disparities in academic performance, aligning with previous research from the region. However, the urban-rural divide in educational outcomes remains substantial, with urban students outperforming their rural counterparts. Machine learning models, particularly Polynomial Regression, outperformed traditional methods in predicting student success, showcasing the utility of advanced analytics in educational research. These findings offer critical insights for policymakers aiming to improve language education, reduce regional disparities, and promote equitable access to quality education across Somaliland.


---
# COVID-19 and the Online Gaze: Transferring Trauma Informed Practices Online

## COVID-19和在线凝视: 在线转移创伤知情实践

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5311185/latest

As faculty and students continue to acclimate learning in a post-COVID world, a better understanding of student and faculty experiences during COVID can help inform successful online pedagogies for the future. One emergent debate is whether faculty should require students to turn on their video cameras in a synchronous class as a way of taking attendance and measuring engagement. Some say requiring cameras during class is contrary trauma-informed teaching practices. Others argue that asking students to turn their cameras on is reasonable request. Through an online survey, this exploratory study invited full-time undergraduate students to respond to closed- and open-ended questions regarding their experiences with synchronous classes and video camera use during the pandemic. Findings point to a concept we name the &ldquo;Online Gaze,&rdquo; which illustrates power imbalances between students and instructors that can emerge during online synchronous classes. The authors argue that the online gaze warrants the need for trauma-informed practices to be transferred to online classes.


---
# Stacking multi-timescale graph attention network and bidirectional gated recurrent units for traffic flow prediction

## 堆叠多时间尺度图注意网络和双向门控递归单元用于交通流预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5381241/latest

Accurately predicting traffic flow becomes more and more important to intelligent transportation systems in the age of autonomous driving. Some existing methods extract spatial and temporal features of road networks respectively via graph convolutional network and recurrent neural network for traffic flow prediction. However, there are still threefold challenge of spatiotemporal coupling interrelations, dynamic spatial correlations, and the impact of periodic patterns and external factors. Addressing at these challenges, this paper proposes a novel approach of stacking multi-timescale graph attention network (GAT) and bidirectional gated recurrent units (BiGRU) for traffic flow prediction, called SMGAT-BiGRU. Firstly, a GAT feature extraction module is explored to capture the dynamic spatial correlation of different road segments, and then a multi-timescale feature fusion module is constructed to mine hidden periodic patterns and to capture the impact of external factors by extracting fine-grained spa-tiotemporal features and external dynamic time-varying features. Secondly, a BiGRU module with attention is proposed to capture temporal dependencies from dynamic spatial dependency sequences. Furthermore, a GAT-BiGRU module is presented to be stacked to fully capture the spatiotemporal coupling interrelations. Experimental results on two PeMS datasets show that SMGAT-BiGRU 1 can remarkably improve the performance of traffic flow prediction and outper-forms many state-of-the-art methods (such as T-GCN, STGCN, STSGCN, and DMSTGCN).


---
# Robot-assisted axillary lymph node dissection in patients with node-positive breast cancer: Techniques, learning curve, and preliminary results

## 淋巴结阳性乳腺癌患者的机器人辅助腋窝淋巴结清扫: 技术，学习曲线和初步结果

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5339448/latest

Background
Robot-assisted axillary lymph node dissection (RALND) has little application experience. In patients with breast cancer that has positive lymph nodes, we present the initial outcomes of RALND.
Methods.
We examined the medical records of individuals with breast cancer from a single institution that underwent RALND treatment between March 2024 and August 2024. The clinicopathological characteristics, learning curve, and consequences of RALND were investigated to determine the efficacy and safety of RALND.
Result
A total of 21 patients with RALND were included in the analysis. we reported that the Docking time took 8&ndash;10 minutes, and the average operation duration was 56.1 &plusmn; 14.6 min. After the accumulation of experience in 6 patients, the time required to complete RALND stabilized at about 60 minutes. The mean blood loss was 4.1 &plusmn; 2.1mL, and the number of lymph nodes was 17.1 &plusmn; 5.6, of which 2.2 &plusmn; 3.5 were positive. All 21 patients had good shoulder joint movement (DASH score 10.82 &plusmn; 2.46), and no wound infection and lymphatic leakage were observed.
Conclusion
According to our initial experience, RALND is a safe surgical procedure that can decrease intraoperative bleeding and the effect on upper limb function, lower the incidence of complications, and potentially be an alternative technique for treating patients with positive axillary lymph nodes in breast cancer.


---
# C-PsyD: A Chinese text classification model for detecting psychological problems

## C-psyd: 一种用于心理问题检测的中文文本分类模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5337854/latest

The COVID-19 epidemic has had significant direct and psychological impacts. This study introduces a Chinese text classification model, C-PsyD, which combines BiGRU, Attention, Self-Attention, and convolutional neural network (CNN) techniques. The model utilizes TextCNN and BiGRU outputs in the Attention module, generating result A. Furthermore, the outputs of Self-Attention and BiGRU are used in the Attention mechanism, producing result B. By averaging the results of A and B, a final text feature vector is obtained and passed through a dropout layer. A fully connected neural network layer processes the text feature vector to obtain the classification result. Experimental evaluations were conducted using a Chinese psychological text dataset from GitHub. The results, including loss function value, classification accuracy, recall result, false positive rate, and confusion matrix, indicate that C-PsyD outperforms six competing models. Notably, C-PsyD achieves a classification accuracy of 79.5%, surpassing TextCNN (78.2%), BiLSTM (76.4%), LSTM (74.9%), Simple-RNN (55.7%), FastText (50.1%), and ST_MFLC (44.8%), as well as FastText (50%). These findings confirm the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed psychological text classification model. Its implementation can enhance doctors' ability to classify patients, promptly detect psychological problems, and facilitate effective treatment, thus optimizing the utilization of medical resources.


---
# Revolutionizing Chinese medicine granule placebo with a machine learning four-color model

## 用机器学习四色模型革新中药颗粒安慰剂

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5301635/latest

With the development of new Chinese medicines and the need for clinical double-blind experiments, the use of placebos in Chinese medicine is becoming increasingly important. However, due to the diverse colors and complex color gamut of these particles, existing simulation methods rely on manual comparison and color mixing, leading to high subjectivity and errors. This study addresses this issue by developing a prediction model to accurately simulate the colors of Chinese medicine granules. In this study, 52 commercially available herbal particles were collected. And more than 320 simulated granules were prepared using fillers and four pigments (lemon yellow, carmine, indigo and caramel colors). Their RGB colors were collected using visible light imaging. A granule color prediction model was constructed by machine learning. First, the best clustering model was obtained by optimising the k-value of the Kmeans model. Subsequently, multiple regression models, including Gradient Boosting Regression (GBR), Support Vector Regression (SVR), and Random Forest, were evaluated through network search and cross-validation methods. Among these models, the average R&amp;sup2; of the random forest model reached 0.9249, outperforming other models. The prediction model accurately simulated the color of Chinese medicine granules, with an average color difference (&Delta;E) of 2.7734 and a high RGB value cosine similarity of 0.9999, alongside a 0.9366 similarity in artificial color scoring. This study introduces an innovative approach for the rapid and accurate prediction of granule colors, facilitating the development of clinically applicable placebos in traditional Chinese medicine.


---
# Mechanisms characterizing DOM migration in coal mining subsidence areas

## 采煤沉陷区DOM迁移的表征机制

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5016834/latest

The migration mechanism of DOM in water, soil and sediment t from the coal mining subsidence area of Huabei Xutuan Mine were investigated using three-dimensional fluorescence-parallel factor analyses (EEMs-PARAFAC), self-organized neural networks (SOM), and Fourier infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR). According to the SOM model, Neuron 13, the representative of soil, and Neuron 36, representative of sediment, were categorized as protein-like, whereas Neuron 27, representative as water, was categorized as humus-like. Based on the PARAFAC results, water C1 and C2, soil C1, and sediment C1 and C3 were humus-like fractions, and water C3, soil C2, C3, and sediment C2 were protein-like fractions. The DOM in the water, soil, and sediment samples was mainly endogenous and had a low degree of humification. The FT-IR results showed that the DOM in the water body had more humus-like functional groups related to microbial decomposition, and the soil around the subsidence area was sunken and flooded to form the sediment. Therefore, the soil and sediment samples showed more protein moieties related to biological activities.


---
# Damage-associated Molecular Patterns Related Score (DAMPscore) Identifies Subtypes of Hepatocellular Carcinoma with Distinct Prognosis and Treatment Sensitivity

## 损伤相关分子模式相关评分 (DAMPscore) 可识别具有不同预后和治疗敏感性的肝细胞癌亚型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5325325/latest

Background: Damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMP) are pivotal for the incidence of Immunogenic cell death (ICD). In this work, we aimed to develop a DAMP related subtyping system in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and identify hub genes regulating ICD in the disease.
Methods: A set of machine learning methods including consensus clustering, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) logistic regression model, and stepwise regression model, and other bioinformatics analytic tools were integrated to construct an DAMP-related risk score (DAMPscore). CIBERSORT and ESTIMATE algorithm were used to evaluate the immune cell infiltration in HCC. The prognostic capability of DAMPscore was evaluated and compared with clinical features and previously published mRNA signatures. The hub genes of DAMPscore were identified by weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA). Immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining and in vitro experiments, including cell counting kit-8 assay and cell scratch test, were used to explore the role of the hub genes in HCC.
Results: HCC patients could be classified into two subgroups based on DAMP related genes. HCC patients with low DAMPscore had longer overall survival and were marked with high infiltration of immune cells, particularly CD8 T cells. DAMPscore could predict prognosis and immunotherapy response in HCC cohorts, and it exhibited superior predictability than clinical features and 53 previously published mRNA signatures. Thyroid hormone receptor interactor 13 (TRIP13), a hub gene of DAMPscore related genes, was significantly upregulated in HCC and could promote proliferation and migration of HCC cells. And silencing the expression of TRIP13 in HCC cells could increase sensitivity to 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), a proved ICD-inducer in HCC
Conclusion: In conclusion, a stable and powerful DAMP-related signature was constructed and validated in HCC for prognosis and immunotherapy efficiency prediction. TRIP13 functioned as an oncogene in HCC and regulated sensitivity.


---
# A French Foreign Language Lesson for Children with German as a Second Language in Virtual Reality: A Case Study

## 在虚拟现实中以德语为第二语言的儿童的法语外语课程: 案例研究

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5302651/latest

Students with German as a second language (GSL students) have to cope with a huge volume of language learning. This is increasingly evident in early foreign language lessons in English or French. As a result, GSL students are faced with the challenge of having to learn another foreign language in a foreign language.
As part of this study, a virtual learning unit (VRLU) for communicating in French for children with German as a second language (GSL) was developed using the teaching book "dis donc!" and tested with five GSL children in a sixth grade class. It was investigated how the VRLU affects motivation and to what extent it provides the GSL students with low-threshold access to communication.
The research paradigm for this study is based on "Design Science Research". It combines current language learning and behavioral theories as well as design aspects relating to virtual reality. Diagnostic methods such as direct behavioral observation, flow questionnaires and various interviews were used in four field tests.
It was shown that the VRLU developed specifically for the GSL students had a positive effect on the motivation of the students as well as on the confident and clear speaking of the foreign language French. Various scaffolds (aids) used in the VRLU proved to be effective. The most popular scaffolds among the GSL learners were the explanations in their first language (L1), the modelled repetitions and superimposed dialog boxes.
On the one hand, the data from this study shows the great potential of VRLU for the tailored foreign language acquisition of GSL students. On the other hand, the study also clearly showed that the development of VRLU is a multidisciplinary and time-consuming challenge.


---
# Optimized Ozone Concentration Prediction in Seoul Districts Using ANN and K-means Clustering for Accuracy Enhancement

## 使用ANN和K均值聚类优化首尔地区的臭氧浓度预测，以提高准确性

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5315999/latest

Ozone is a dangerous greenhouse gas and air pollutant in urban areas, with significant negative impacts on climate change and human health. Predicting ozone concentrations is a critical factor in environmental issues such as air pollution management, risk assessment, public health, and global warming. Since an early prediction model of ozone is essential for building a warning system, research is needed on indicators that explain whether ozone pollution status will rise or fall. This study proposed a prediction model trained using artificial neural network (ANN)-based classification with training data divided into specific time periods through k-means clustering to predict ozone concentrations. This model lowers the cost of training owing to around 30% of the reduced training data in a specific time period, and is also applicable for a variety of features. Air quality data was collected from 2019 and 2020 in the 25 districts of Seoul, South Korea and used for training and testing on whether the ozone concentration changes after one hour during 07:00 to 18:00. The proposed model yielded 3% higher F1 score and 3-4% higher accuracy in comparison with other models. As a result, the model proposed in this study showed improved performance while reducing the training data in a specific environment.


---
# Machine Learning Analysis of Mental Health Disparities among African Americans in Southeastern Virginia: Predictive Modeling, Risk Factors, and Policy Implications

## 弗吉尼亚东南部非裔美国人心理健康差异的机器学习分析: 预测模型、风险因素和政策含义

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5362723/latest

This study examined mental health disparities among African Americans, emphasizing gender differences and using AI and machine learning for outcome prediction. Data from African American adults (18-85) in Southeastern Virginia (2016-2020) were analyzed using descriptive statistics, chi-square, Kruskal-Wallis, and Wilcoxon tests. Machine learning models, including gradient boosting, random forest, neural networks, logistic regression, and Naive Bayes, were validated through 100 repeated 5-fold cross-validations. Nomograms were developed to visualize risk factors, identifying mood affective disorders as most prevalent, followed by schizophrenia, delusional disorders, and substance use disorders. Gender, age, comorbidities, and insurance type were key predictors, with females primarily affected by mood and neurotic disorders. Gradient boosting demonstrated high accuracy. The study highlights demographic and clinical predictors' significance despite limitations like its retrospective design and regional focus. It offers insights into mental health disparities among African Americans in Southeastern Virginia and calls for further research to inform effective health policies.


---
# Assessment of Radioactive Isotopes in Mineral Water in Arak City: Machine Learning Models for Enhancing Water Safety

## 阿拉克市矿泉水中放射性同位素的评估: 用于增强水安全的机器学习模型

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5306358/latest

Humans encounter both natural and artificial radiation sources, including cosmic rays, primordial radionuclides, and radiation generated by human activities. These radionuclides can infiltrate the human body through various pathways, potentially leading to cancer and genetic mutations. A study was conducted using random sampling to assess the concentrations of radioactive isotopes and heavy metals in mineral water from Arak City. Notably, specific radiation levels of Ra-226 were not detected, whereas the concentrations of Th-232, K-40, and Cs-137 were found to be below the thresholds established by the World Health Organization (WHO). The annual effective doses derived from the consumption of bottled water were significantly lower than the limits set by the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR), thereby reducing the risk of cancer. Furthermore, heavy metals such as lead and chromium were not present in the samples, thereby contributing to the overall safety of the water. The Machine Learning (ML) models employed in this study provided accurate predictions, ensuring reliability across various demographic groups and reinforcing the robustness of the findings. Overall, the results suggest that mineral water consumption poses minimal health risks.


---
# A DNN-based 5G MIMO System Adopting a Mix of Tactics

## 采用混合策略的基于DNN的5g MIMO系统

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5302008/latest

The emergence of 5G technology necessitates advanced communication systems that can handle high data rates while providing improved reliability. However, current methods often struggle with issues related to complexity and efficiency. This paper addresses these challenges by developing a Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) system that integrates deep neural network (DNN) demappers, Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC) coding, and polar coding, creating a mix of tactics aimed at boosting performance in flat fading channel environments. The main objectives of this study are to improve the bit error rate (BER) and spectral efficiency across different orders of Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM)&amp;mdash;specifically, 4-QAM, 16-QAM, and 256-QAM. The proposed system employs a Linear Minimum Mean Square Error (LMMSE) equalizer to ensure effective signal detection. Simulation results indicate that the LDPC coding technique significantly outperforms polar coding across all evaluated QAM modulation orders, highlighting its effectiveness in enhancing system performance. An analysis of BER and spectral efficiency demonstrates considerable reliability and data throughput improvements, making the MIMO system particularly well-suited for the demanding requirements of 5G applications. The findings suggest that integrating advanced coding strategies with neural demapping can effectively tackle the complexities introduced by the 5G environment. This research establishes a foundation for future studies and the development of robust communication systems capable of supporting the next generation of wireless technology, thereby enabling a wide range of applications, from enhanced mobile broadband to extensive IoT connectivity.


---
# Enhancing Furcation Involvement Classification on Panoramic Radiographs with Vision Transformers

## 使用视觉转换器增强全景x射线照片上的分叉参与分类

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5129207/latest

Background The severity of furcation involvement (FI) directly affects tooth prognosis and influences treatment approaches. However, assessing, diagnosing, and treating molars with FI is complicated by anatomical and morphological variations. cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) has enhanced diagnostic accuracy for detecting FI and measuring furcation defects. Despite its advantages, the high cost and radiation dose associated with CBCT equipment limit its widespread use. This study presents the first application of Vision Transformer (ViT) models for FI classification using panoramic radiographs.Methods A total of 1,568 tooth images obtained from 506 panoramic radiographs were used to construct the database and evaluate the models. We developed and assessed a ViT model for classifying FI from panoramic radiographs, and compared its performance with traditional models, including Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), VGG, and GoogLeNet.Results Among the evaluated models, the ViT model outperformed all others, achieving the highest precision (0.98), recall (0.92), and F1 score (0.95), along with the lowest cross-entropy loss (0.27) and the highest accuracy (92%). ViT also recorded the highest area under the curve (AUC) (98%), outperforming the other models with statistically significant differences (p&amp;thinsp;&amp;lt;&amp;thinsp;0.05), confirming its enhanced classification capability. The gradient-weighted class activation mapping (Grad-CAM) analysis on the ViT model revealed the key areas of the images that the model focused on during predictions.Conclusion Deep learning (DL) algorithms can automatically classify FI using readily accessible panoramic images. Our findings demonstrate that ViT outperforms traditional models, highlighting the potential of transformer-based approaches to significantly advance image classification. This approach is also expected to reduce both the radiation dose and the financial burden on patients while simultaneously improving diagnostic precision.


---
# Artificial Intelligence-Assisted Adaptive Test Design With Response Time Using Item Response Theory

## 基于项目响应理论的具有响应时间的人工智能辅助自适应测试一下设计

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5248416/latest

The aim of this study is to develop an innovative more precise adaptive testing system that assesses student performance not only on basis of correct or incorrect answers, but also by taking into account time taken to answer questions and complete test. The innovative assessment method for student, based on Rasch model of Item Response Theory, considers time to answer questions and time to complete test as important parameter in addition to correct/incorrect answers when calculating student abilities. Thus, ability levels of students who answer same question correctly may differ according to time of answering questions. "TestYourself", web-based online test system developed with Python programming using innovative adaptive testing system according to ability level of students, collects answer time, test completion time and true/false information for each question. Data obtained are processed by machine learning based system and scores of students are calculated using combination of linear and cubic regression methods according to difficulty levels of questions and answer times of students. The innovative method is tested online on first year university students. The result shows that AUROC value of classification using random forest algorithm with student ability score, extra score obtained from time taken to answer questions and test completion time is 11.13% more sensitive than classification using ability score and extra score obtained from time taken to answer questions, and 33.46% more sensitive than student classification using only student ability level. With its innovative examination and scoring system, it allows students' ability levels to be determined more precisely in timed exams.


---
# AM-PromptIR:Adaptive Multi-Prompt Information-Guided Multi-Scale All-in-One Image Restoration

## Am-promptir: 自适应多提示信息引导的多尺度一体图像恢复

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5387523/latest

The objective of All-in-One image restoration is to address various types of degradations in low-quality images&mdash;such as noise, haze, blur, and raindrops&mdash;using a single model to produce high-quality outputs. Although existing models perform well, they either rely solely on visual information or separately handle visual and semantic data, which limits their adaptability. To overcome this limitation, we introduce AM-PromptIR, an adaptive multi-modal prompt learning method. AM-PromptIR features an adaptive multi-modal prompt generation module that dynamically guides the model to address different types of degradation through multi-modal information. Additionally, the multi-scale feature extraction and enhancement-fusion module captures relationships across different scales for various types of degradation information and optimizes their integration. Experimental results demonstrate that AM-PromptIR improves PSNR by 5.5% for dehazing tasks, by 4.0% for deraining tasks, and increases denoising PSNR by at least 1.0% across various noise levels, underscoring its robustness in addressing multiple degradation issues. Our code are available here: https://github.com/buuzhangsen/AM-PromptIR.


---
# Diagnosis of Current Transformers Based on Symmetrized Dot Pattern and Horizontal Enhanced Convolution

## 基于对称点阵和水平增强卷积的电流互感器诊断

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5387497/latest

The stability of fibre optic current transformers (FOCTs), crucial for power metering systems, is paramount. This paper introduces an innovative fault diagnosis method to enhance FOCT diagnostic capabilities. Firstly, utilizing advanced AI and neural networks, the method employs Symmetric Point Pattern (SDP) for complex data fusion, alongside Principal Component Analysis (PCA) for feature reduction. Secondly, Horizontal Enhanced Convolution (HEC) identifies key characteristics, while residual architecture tackles gradient descent issues in traditional CNNs. Then, inspired by Feature Pyramid Networks (FPNs), a new architecture efficiently extracts multiscale features, preventing overfitting with Selective Pooling Prevention Filtering (SPPF). The developed SDP-MSFCNN model achieved a high diagnostic accuracy of 98.82%, surpassing the 90.72% of conventional SDP-CNN and the 96.61% of MA1-DCNN. This approach significantly enhances power system reliability and efficiency, and is ready for integration into high-voltage network fault diagnosis systems, improving the intelligence and safety of 110kV to 1000kV AC/DC transformers.


---
# Multiscale Spatio-Temporal Aware Graph Recurrent Neural Network for Traffic Prediction

## 多尺度时空感知图递归神经网络在流量预测中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5257185/latest

The main problem within most existing traffic prediction methods is that they capture sequence features using a single scale, such as the time continuity or the direct adjacency relationship. It makes the relevant traffic prediction models still insufficient in capturing the dynamic patterns and spatio-temporal correlations. To fully mine the spatio-temporal correlation of traffic sequence, a multiscale spatio-temporal aware graph recurrent neural network (MSSTA-GRN) is proposed in the paper. Firstly, to capture the internal temporal correlation of traffic sequences at different scales, we decompose the hidden states of GRU into different scales and then update the corresponding hidden states according to different frequencies, the speed changes at different frequencies can be better captured. Secondly, to capture the multiscale spatial correlation of the traffic network more comprehensively, a multiscale spatial feature capture module is constructed by cascading multiple GCNs, the multiscale GCN can better deal with the interaction between different regions. Finally, MSSTA-GRN is designed to fuse multiscale spatio-temporal features, and experimental results indicate that the proposed perception method can improve the accuracy and robustness of traffic prediction.


---
# Generative deep learning enables the discovery of phosphorylation-suppressed STAT3 inhibitors for non-small cell lung cancer therapy

## 生成式深度学习能够发现磷酸化抑制的STAT3抑制剂用于非小细胞肺癌治疗

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5213622/latest

The discovery of phosphorylation-suppressed inhibitors for Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) presents a novel therapeutic strategy for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Despite the pivotal roles of STAT3 in cancer progression, effective inhibitors remain limited, especially for efficiently suppressing phosphorylation at Try705. This study harnesses generative deep learning to develop a model for de novo design of STAT3 inhibitors that selectively target the phosphorylated form and subsequentially induce cellular apoptosis. Initially, we constructed a generative model utilizing a generative deep learning with transfer learning and virtual screening, trained on existing STAT3 inhibitor datasets to explore the chemical space. We generated a diverse library of candidate compounds, which were subsequently screened through molecular docking and pharmacophore modeling, identifying several promising inhibitors. Compared with HG106, HG110 molecule can efficiently suppress phosphorylation of STAT3, and suppress the nucleus translocation of STAT3 in H441, which stimulated by IL6 pro-inflammatory factor. Rigorous molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed to evaluate the stability and interaction profiles of selected candidates within the STAT3 binding site. Among the top candidates, compounds HG106 and HG110 exhibited superior binding affinities compared to known STAT3 inhibitors. The MD simulations confirmed stable conformations and favorable interactions with key residues in the binding pocket, indicating potential for in vivo efficacy. This study demonstrates the power of generative deep learning in accelerating the identification of novel phosphorylation-suppressed STAT3 inhibitors, providing a promising direction for NSCLC therapy.


---
# A comprehensive review of deep learning-based hyperspectral image reconstruction for agri-food quality appraisal

## 基于深度学习的高光谱图像重建在农产品品质评价中的应用综述

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5240049/latest

Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) has recently emerged as a promising tool for various agricultural applications. However, high equipment cost, instrumentation complexity, and data-intensive nature have limited its widespread adoption. To overcome these challenges, reconstructing hyperspectral data from simple, cost-effective color or RGB (red-green-blue) images using advanced deep learning algorithms offers a practically attractive solution for a wide range of applications in food quality control and assurance. Through advanced deep learning algorithms, it is possible to capture and reconstruct spectral information from simple, cost-effective RGB imaging to create a reliable, efficient, and scalable system with accuracy comparable to dedicated, expensive HSI systems. This review provides a comprehensive overview of recent advances in deep learning techniques for HSI reconstruction and highlights the transformative impact of deep learning-based hyperspectral image reconstruction on agricultural and food products and anticipates a future where these innovations will lead to more advanced and widespread applications in the agri-food industry.


---
# Using VIS-NIR hyperspectral imaging and machine&nbsp;learning&nbsp;for non-destructive&nbsp;detection&nbsp;of nutrient&nbsp;contents&nbsp;in&nbsp;sorghum

## Vis-nir高光谱成像和机器学习在高粱营养成分无损检测中的应用

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5136525/latest

Non-destructive, rapid, and accurate detection of the nutritional compositions in sorghum is of great significance to the application of sorghum in agricultural production and food industry. In the process of sorghum nutrition detection, it can obtain good effect by extracting the corresponding characteristic wavelengths and selecting the suitable detection model for different nutrients. In this study, the crude protein, tannin, and crude fat contents of sorghum variety samples were taken as the research object. Firstly, the visible near-infrared(Vis-NIR) hyperspectral curves of sorghum were measured by the Starter Kit indoor mobile scanning platform (Starter Kit, Headwall Photonics, USA). Secondly, the nutritional components were determined using chemical methods in order to analyze the differences in nutritional composition among different varieties. Thirdly, the original spectral curves were de-noised by Standard normal variate(SNV), Detrending, and Multiplicative Scatter Correction (MSC) algorithms, and the Competitive adaptive reweighted sampling (CARS) and Bootstrapping soft shrinkage (BOSS) algorithms were used to coarse extract the characteristic variables, then Iteratively retains informative variables (IRIV) was used to judge the importance of the characteristic variables, and the optimal wavelength sets of crude protein, tannin and crude fat were obtained respectively. Finally, Partial least squares(PLS), Back propagation(BP) and Extreme learning machine(ELM) were used to establish the non-destructive detection models of crude protein, tannin and crude fat content respectively. The results showed the following: (1) The optimal variable sets of crude protein, tannin and crude fat contain 41, 38 and 22 wavelength variables, respectively. (2) The CARS-IRIV-PLS model was suitable for detecting crude protein, the prediction set exhibits R2, RMSE and RPD values of 0.6913, 0.7996% and 1.7998. The BOSS-IRIV-PLS model achieved good results in tannin detection, the prediction set exhibits R2, RMSE and RPD values of 0.8760, 0.2169% and 2.8398. The BOSS-IRIV-ELM model achieved the best results in crude fat detection, the prediction set exhibits R2, RMSE and RPD values of 0.6145, 0.3208% and 1.6106. (3) Linear PLS model is suitable for crude protein and tannin detection, and nonlinear ELM model is suitable for crude fat detection. These detection models can be used for the effective estimation of the nutritional compositions in sorghum with Vis-NIR spectral data, and can provide an important basis for the application of food nutrition assessment.


---
# Revolutionizing Forest Fire and Smoke Detection: A Cutting-Edge Ensemble of Deep Learning Models for Enhanced Accuracy

## 革新森林火灾和烟雾检测: 用于提高准确性的深度学习模型的尖端集成

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5133149/latest

Forest fires pose a significant environmental threat, necessitating early and accurate detection systems. This paper addresses the problem of forest fire and smoke detection using an ensemble of deep learning models. Three advanced convo-lutional neural network architectures&mdash;DenseNet, ResNet, and Xception&mdash;were employed and combined using a majority voting scheme to enhance detection accuracy. Two datasets were utilized: one containing only fire images and another comprising both fire and smoke images. The ensemble model consistently performed better than individual models, with accuracy on the fire and fire and smoke datasets of 0.99 and 0.984, respectively. The findings show that the ensemble method offers a robust and dependable option for early forest fire detection by significantly enhancing detection performance.

