# Predicting tremor improvement after MRgFUS thalamotomy in essential tremor from preoperative spontaneous brain activity: A machine learning approach

## 从术前自发性脑活动预测原发性震颤MRgFUS丘脑切开术后震颤改善: 一种机器学习方法

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324005887?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 15 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 19</p><p>Author(s): Dong Zhang, Yongqin Xiong, Haoxuan Lu, Caohui Duan, Jiayu Huang, Yan Li, Xiangbing Bian, Dekang Zhang, Jiayou Zhou, Longsheng Pan, Xin Lou</p>


---
# An approach for full space inverse materials design by combining universal machine learning potential, universal property model, and optimization algorithm

## 结合通用机器学习潜力，通用属性模型和优化算法的全空间逆材料设计方法

Link: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2095927324004948?dgcid=rss_sd_all

<p>Publication date: 15 October 2024</p><p><b>Source:</b> Science Bulletin, Volume 69, Issue 19</p><p>Author(s): Guanjian Cheng, Xin-Gao Gong, Wan-Jian Yin</p>


---
# Simultaneous Optimized Mechanical Stiffness and Cell Growth on Scaffold by Morphology Learning

## 通过形态学习同时优化支架上的机械刚度和细胞生长

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23295

arXiv:2410.23295v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The morphology of microstructures in scaffolds is a critical factor influencing both mechanical properties and biological performance, such as cell growth, in bone tissue engineering. While metamaterials with optimized mechanical properties, such as hyperelasticity, thermal efficiency, or energy absorption, have been designed through complex microstructural geometry with the help of numerical simulation of multi-physics, optimizing biological performance alongside these physical traits remains a significant challenge. This is primarily because biological performance must be evaluated through laboratory experiments. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach that simultaneously optimizes mechanical stiffness and cell growth effectiveness through a data-driven morphology learning method. Our approach effectively extracts and learns shape patterns from a specifically selected dataset of microstructures recognized for their superior cell growth performance. We then integrate these patterns into a computational framework based on topology optimization, enabling the generation of new microstructures that maintain high levels of cell growth while enhancing mechanical stiffness. Using this morphology learning-based method, we identified a scaffold design for bone tissue engineering that demonstrates a significant improvement in both mechanical stiffness (by 29.69%) and cell proliferation (by 37.05% on Day 7 and 33.30% on Day 14).


---
# Performance of the MACE-MP-0 potential for calculating viscosity in LiF molten salt

## MACE-MP-0电位在LiF熔盐中计算粘度的性能

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23679

arXiv:2410.23679v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We perform molecular dynamics simulations of molten Lithium Fluoride using the MACE-MP-0 (small) machine learnt interatomic potential and the classical Buckingham and Born-Huggins-Mayer potentials. We find that the MACE-MP-0, out-of-the-box, is able to accurately reproduce the experimental viscosity across the liquid state. Whilst the previous predicted viscosities from classical potentials are under-predicted, which has previously been attributed to a suppressed melting temperature. We find that the melting temperature simulated by MACE-MP-0, simply by heating a crystal structure, is significantly closer to the experimental melting temperature of LiF.


---
# Learning State Preparation Circuits for Quantum Phases of Matter

## 用于物质量子相的学习状态准备电路

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23544

arXiv:2410.23544v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Many-body ground state preparation is an important subroutine used in the simulation of physical systems. In this paper, we introduce a flexible and efficient framework for obtaining a state preparation circuit for a large class of many-body ground states. We introduce polynomial-time classical algorithms that take reduced density matrices over $\mathcal{O}(1)$-sized balls as inputs, and output a circuit that prepares the global state. We introduce algorithms applicable to (i) short-range entangled states (e.g., states prepared by shallow quantum circuits in any number of dimensions, and more generally, invertible states) and (ii) long-range entangled ground states (e.g., the toric code on a disk). Both algorithms can provably find a circuit whose depth is asymptotically optimal. Our approach uses a variant of the quantum Markov chain condition that remains robust against constant-depth circuits. The robustness of this condition makes our method applicable to a large class of states, whilst ensuring a classically tractable optimization landscape.


---
# Enhancing light-matter coupling with electric fields in polar semiconductors

## 增强极性半导体中电场的光物质耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23591

arXiv:2410.23591v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: We revisit the prevailing notion that spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization fields are inherently detrimental to light emission in polar semiconductor heterostructures. Here, we demonstrate that polarization can enhance light-matter coupling in quantum wells through the quantum-confined Stark effect, by enabling a reduction in well width without shifting the emission to shorter wavelengths. We illustrate this with the paradigmatic example of red-emitting (644 nm-698 nm) AlInGaN heterostructures, which are essential for achieving polychromatic micron-scale pixels. By systematically exploring their design space with machine learning, we uncover that the globally optimal designs feature extreme internal electric fields exceeding 8 MV/cm. Structural and compositional engineering of electric fields not only offers precise control over the emission wavelength but also boosts the light-emission probability by orders of magnitude.


---
# Physics of collective transport and traffic phenomena in biology: progress in 20 years

## 生物学中的集体运输和交通现象的物理学: 20年的进展

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23735

arXiv:2410.23735v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Enormous progress have been made in the last 20 years since the publication of our review \cite{csk05polrev} in this journal on transport and traffic phenomena in biology. In this brief article we present a glimpse of the major advances during this period. First, we present similarities and differences between collective intracellular transport of a single micron-size cargo by multiple molecular motors and that of a cargo particle by a team of ants on the basis of the common principle of load-sharing. Second, we sketch several models all of which are biologically motivated extensions of the Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process (ASEP); some of these models represent the traffic of molecular machines, like RNA polymerase (RNAP) and ribosome, that catalyze template-directed polymerization of RNA and proteins, respectively, whereas few other models capture the key features of the traffic of ants on trails. More specifically, using the ASEP-based models we demonstrate the effects of traffic of RNAPs and ribosomes on random and `programmed' errors in gene expression as well as on some other subcellular processes. We recall a puzzling empirical result on the single-lane traffic of predatory ants {\it Leptogenys processionalis} as well as recent attempts to account for this puzzle. We also mention some surprising effects of lane-changing rules observed in a ASEP-based model for 3-lane traffic of army ants. Finally, we explain the conceptual similarities between the pheromone-mediated indirect communication, called stigmergy, between ants on a trail and the floor-field-mediated interaction between humans in a pedestrian traffic. For the floor-field model of human pedestrian traffic we present a major theoretical result that is relevant from the perspective of all types of traffic phenomena.


---
# Neural Network Matrix Product Operator: A Multi-Dimensionally Integrable Machine Learning Potential

## 神经网络矩阵乘积算子: 一种多维可积的机器学习势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23858

arXiv:2410.23858v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A neural network-based machine learning potential energy surface (PES) expressed in a matrix product operator (NN-MPO) is proposed. The MPO form enables efficient evaluation of high-dimensional integrals that arise in solving the time-dependent and time-independent Schr\"odinger equation and effectively overcomes the so-called curse of dimensionality. This starkly contrasts with other neural network-based machine learning PES methods, such as multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs), where evaluating high-dimensional integrals is not straightforward due to the fully connected topology in their backbone architecture. Nevertheless, the NN-MPO retains the high representational capacity of neural networks. NN-MPO can achieve spectroscopic accuracy with a test mean absolute error (MAE) of 3.03 cm$^{-1}$ for a fully coupled six-dimensional ab initio PES, using only 625 training points distributed across a 0 to 17,000 cm$^{-1}$ energy range. Our Python implementation is available at https://github.com/KenHino/Pompon.


---
# Natural gradient and parameter estimation for quantum Boltzmann machines

## 量子玻尔兹曼机的自然梯度和参数估计

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24058

arXiv:2410.24058v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Thermal states play a fundamental role in various areas of physics, and they are becoming increasingly important in quantum information science, with applications related to semi-definite programming, quantum Boltzmann machine learning, Hamiltonian learning, and the related task of estimating the parameters of a Hamiltonian. Here we establish formulas underlying the basic geometry of parameterized thermal states, and we delineate quantum algorithms for estimating the values of these formulas. More specifically, we prove formulas for the Fisher--Bures and Kubo--Mori information matrices of parameterized thermal states, and our quantum algorithms for estimating their matrix elements involve a combination of classical sampling, Hamiltonian simulation, and the Hadamard test. These results have applications in developing a natural gradient descent algorithm for quantum Boltzmann machine learning, which takes into account the geometry of thermal states, and in establishing fundamental limitations on the ability to estimate the parameters of a Hamiltonian, when given access to thermal-state samples. For the latter task, and for the special case of estimating a single parameter, we sketch an algorithm that realizes a measurement that is asymptotically optimal for the estimation task. We finally stress that the natural gradient descent algorithm developed here can be used for any machine learning problem that employs the quantum Boltzmann machine ansatz.


---
# Multi-parameter optimal control of F1-ATPase

## F1-ATPase的多参数最优控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24122

arXiv:2410.24122v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Biological molecular machines convert free energy between different forms in cells, often at high efficiency. Optimal control theory provides a framework to elucidate design principles governing energetically efficient driving. Here, we use linear-response theory to design efficient protocols exercising dynamic control of trap center and stiffness in a model of driven F1-ATPase. We find that the key design principles of an efficient protocol can be satisfied either by dynamic control of both parameters, or by dynamic control of a single parameter and a good static choice for the second. These results illustrate that accessing a new degree of dynamic control provides varying performance improvements in different systems.


---
# Development of a Machine Learning Potential to Study Structure and Thermodynamics of Nickel Nanoclusters

## 开发机器学习潜力以研究镍纳米团簇的结构和热力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14683

arXiv:2405.14683v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Machine Learning (ML) potentials such as Gaussian Approximation Potential (GAP) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in mapping structure to properties across diverse systems. Here, we introduce a GAP model for low-dimensional Ni nanoclusters and demonstrate its flexibility and effectiveness in capturing the energetics, structural diversity and thermodynamic properties of Ni nanoclusters across a broad size range. Through a systematic approach encompassing model development, validation, and application, we evaluate the model's efficacy in representing energetics and configurational features in low-dimensional regimes, while also examining its extrapolative nature to vastly different spatiotemporal regimes. Our analysis and discussion shed light on the data quality required to effectively train such models. Trajectories from large scale MD simulations using the GAP model analyzed with data-driven models like Graph Neural Networks (GNN) reveal intriguing insights into the size-dependent phase behavior and thermo-mechanical stability characteristics of porous Ni nanoparticles. Overall, our work underscores the potential of ML models which coupled with data-driven approaches serve as versatile tools for studying low-dimensional systems and complex material dynamics.


---
# Leveraging Persistent Homology Features for Accurate Defect Formation Energy Predictions via Graph Neural Networks

## 通过图形神经网络利用持久的同源性特征进行准确的缺陷形成能量预测

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.05204

arXiv:2407.05204v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: In machine-learning-assisted high-throughput defect studies, a defect-aware latent representation of the supercell structure is crucial to the accurate prediction of defect properties. The performance of current graph neural network (GNN) models is limited due to the fact that defect properties depend strongly on the local atomic configurations near the defect sites and due to the over-smoothing problem of GNN. Herein, we demonstrate that persistent homology features, which encode the topological information of local chemical environment around each atomic site, can characterize the structural information of defects. Using the dataset containing a wide spectrum of \ch{O}-based perovskites with all available vacancies as an example, we show that incorporating the persistent homology features, along with proper choices of graph pooling operations, significantly increases the prediction accuracy, with the MAE reduced by 55\%. Those features can be easily integrated into the state-of-the-art GNN models, including the graph Transformer network and the equivariant neural network, and universally improve their performance. Besides, our model also overcomes the convergence issue with respect to the supercell size that was present in previous GNN models. Furthermore, using the datasets of defective \ch{BaTiO3} with multiple substitutions and multiple vacancies as examples, our GNN model can also predict the defect-defect interactions accurately. These results suggest that persistent homology features can effectively improve the performance of machine learning models and assist the accelerated discovery of functional defects for technological applications.


---
# Boolean SK Model

## 布尔SK模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08693

arXiv:2409.08693v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: For over half a century, statistical mechanics of spin glasses played as a paradigm to model and interpret disparate phenomena, ranging from quantitative biology to computer science. However, despite the extensive body of research in this area, there is still a notable lack of studies addressing the replacement of Ising spins with Boolean spins: as the latter play as bits in Machine Learning, this gap to fill is now mandatory. Purpose of this paper is to address this study by focusing on the mean field assumption, providing a comprehensive description of the results pertaining to these networks, referred to as the Boolean SK model due to their close relationship with the SK one. We provide a comprehensive framework for this model by employing Guerra interpolation: the thermodynamic limit, the replica symmetric and the broken replica free energy expressions are derived. Further, we inspect the onset of the replica symmetry breaking -- i.e., the de Almeida-Thouless line -- and derive Ghirlanda-Guerra fluctuations. All theoretical findings are corroborated by numerical inspections and both highlight crucial differences in the network's behavior if compared with the Ising SK model: as the temperature is lowered, no phase transitions are evidenced and the model continuously moves from a random (ergodic) behavior to a disordered (glassy) phase.


---
# Gaussian Universality in Neural Network Dynamics with Generalized Structured Input Distributions

## 具有广义结构化输入分布的神经网络动力学中的高斯普遍性

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00642

arXiv:2405.00642v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Bridging the gap between the practical performance of deep learning and its theoretical foundations often involves analyzing neural networks through stochastic gradient descent (SGD). Expanding on previous research that focused on modeling structured inputs under a simple Gaussian setting, we analyze the behavior of a deep learning system trained on inputs modeled as Gaussian mixtures to better simulate more general structured inputs. Through empirical analysis and theoretical investigation, we demonstrate that under certain standardization schemes, the deep learning model converges toward Gaussian setting behavior, even when the input data follow more complex or real-world distributions. This finding exhibits a form of universality in which diverse structured distributions yield results consistent with Gaussian assumptions, which can support the theoretical understanding of deep learning models.


---
# Ab Initio Structure Solutions from Nanocrystalline Powder Diffraction Data

## 来自纳米晶粉末衍射数据的从头算结构解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10796

arXiv:2406.10796v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: A major challenge in materials science is the determination of the structure of nanometer sized objects. Here we present a novel approach that uses a generative machine learning model based on diffusion processes that is trained on 45,229 known structures. The model factors both the measured diffraction pattern as well as relevant statistical priors on the unit cell of atomic cluster structures. Conditioned only on the chemical formula and the information-scarce finite-size broadened powder diffraction pattern, we find that our model, PXRDnet, can successfully solve simulated nanocrystals as small as 10 angstroms across 200 materials of varying symmetry and complexity, including structures from all seven crystal systems. We show that our model can successfully and verifiably determine structural candidates four out of five times, with average error among these candidates being only 7% (as measured by post-Rietveld refinement R-factor). Furthermore, PXRDnet is capable of solving structures from noisy diffraction patterns gathered in real-world experiments. We suggest that data driven approaches, bootstrapped from theoretical simulation, will ultimately provide a path towards determining the structure of previously unsolved nano-materials.


---
# Machine learning models with different cheminformatics data sets to forecast the power conversion efficiency of organic solar cells

## 使用不同化学信息学数据集的机器学习模型预测有机太阳能电池的功率转换效率

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23444

arXiv:2410.23444v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Random Forest (RF) and Gradient Boosting Regression Trees (GBRT) regression models along with three cheminformatics data sets (RDkit, Mordred, Morgan) have been used to predict the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of organic solar cells (OSCs). The data consists of cheinformatics descriptors of the electron donor used in 433 OSCs for which the experimental PCE (target variable) is reported in the literature. The donor is either a polymer or a small organic molecule, and the acceptor the fullerene derivatives PCBM or PC71BM. Unlike previous methods, our ML approach considers the type of donor and the acceptor by adding four extra donor's features using the one-hot encoder tool. It is demonstrated that this additional information improves the prediction performance up to 34%. We have also exploited this feature to theoretically forecast the PCE of new OSCs by evaluating the ML model for a different acceptor. It is predicted that more than 50% of the OCSs obtained by exchanging the acceptor would have higher experimental PCE. The prediction accuracy of a given ML approach is analyzed for different PCE intervals. RF using RDkit descriptors resulted in the best ML approach with a Pearson's correlation coefficient for the training and testing sets equal to 0.96 and 0.62, respectively.


---
# Geographic Space as Manifolds

## 作为流形的地理空间

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23559

arXiv:2410.23559v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: The communications and interrelations between different locations on the Earth's surface have far-reaching implications for both social and natural systems. Effective spatial analytics ideally require a spatial representation, where geographic principles are succinctly expressed within a defined metric space. However, common spatial representations, including map-based or network-based approaches, fall short by incompletely or inaccurately defining this metric space. Here we show, by introducing an inverse friction factor that captures the spatial constraints in spatial networks, that a homogeneous, low-dimensional spatial representation - termed the Geographic Manifold - can be achieved. We illustrate the effectiveness of the Geographic Manifold in two classic scenarios of spatial analytics - location choice and propagation, where the otherwise complicated analyses are reduced to straightforward regular partitioning and concentric diffusing, respectively on the manifold with a high degree of accuracy. We further empirically explain and formally prove the general existence of the Geographic Manifold, which is grounded in the intrinsic Euclidean low-dimensional statistical physics properties of geographic phenomena. This work represents a step towards formalizing Tobler's famous First Law of Geography from a geometric approach, where a regularized geospace thereby yielded is expected to contribute in learning abstract spatial structure representations for understanding and optimization purposes.


---
# Enhancing light-matter coupling with electric fields in polar semiconductors

## 增强极性半导体中电场的光物质耦合

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23591

arXiv:2410.23591v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We revisit the prevailing notion that spontaneous and piezoelectric polarization fields are inherently detrimental to light emission in polar semiconductor heterostructures. Here, we demonstrate that polarization can enhance light-matter coupling in quantum wells through the quantum-confined Stark effect, by enabling a reduction in well width without shifting the emission to shorter wavelengths. We illustrate this with the paradigmatic example of red-emitting (644 nm-698 nm) AlInGaN heterostructures, which are essential for achieving polychromatic micron-scale pixels. By systematically exploring their design space with machine learning, we uncover that the globally optimal designs feature extreme internal electric fields exceeding 8 MV/cm. Structural and compositional engineering of electric fields not only offers precise control over the emission wavelength but also boosts the light-emission probability by orders of magnitude.


---
# SUANPAN: Scalable Photonic Linear Vector Machine

## SUANPAN: 可扩展的光子线性向量机

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23659

arXiv:2410.23659v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Photonic linear operation is a promising approach to handle the extensive vector multiplications in artificial intelligence techniques due to the natural bosonic parallelism and high-speed information transmission of photonics. Although it is believed that maximizing the interaction of the light beams is necessary to fully utilize the parallelism and tremendous efforts have been made in past decades, the achieved dimensionality of vector-matrix multiplication is very limited due to the difficulty of scaling up a tightly interconnected or highly coupled optical system. Additionally, there is still a lack of a universal photonic computing architecture that can be readily merged with existing computing system to meet the computing power demand of AI techniques. Here, we propose a programmable and reconfigurable photonic linear vector machine to perform only the inner product of two vectors, formed by a series of independent basic computing units, while each unit is just one pair of light-emitter and photodetector. Since there is no interaction among light beams inside, extreme scalability could be achieved by simply duplicating the independent basic computing unit while there is no requirement of large-scale analog-to-digital converter and digital-to-analog converter arrays. Our architecture is inspired by the traditional Chinese Suanpan or abacus and thus is denoted as photonic SUANPAN. As a proof of principle, SUANPAN architecture is implemented with an 8*8 vertical cavity surface emission laser array and an 8*8 MoTe2 two-dimensional material photodetector array. We believe that our proposed photonic SUANPAN is capable of serving as a fundamental linear vector machine that can be readily merged with existing electronic digital computing system and is potential to enhance the computing power for future various AI applications.


---
# Physics of collective transport and traffic phenomena in biology: progress in 20 years

## 生物学中的集体运输和交通现象的物理学: 20年的进展

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23735

arXiv:2410.23735v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Enormous progress have been made in the last 20 years since the publication of our review \cite{csk05polrev} in this journal on transport and traffic phenomena in biology. In this brief article we present a glimpse of the major advances during this period. First, we present similarities and differences between collective intracellular transport of a single micron-size cargo by multiple molecular motors and that of a cargo particle by a team of ants on the basis of the common principle of load-sharing. Second, we sketch several models all of which are biologically motivated extensions of the Asymmetric Simple Exclusion Process (ASEP); some of these models represent the traffic of molecular machines, like RNA polymerase (RNAP) and ribosome, that catalyze template-directed polymerization of RNA and proteins, respectively, whereas few other models capture the key features of the traffic of ants on trails. More specifically, using the ASEP-based models we demonstrate the effects of traffic of RNAPs and ribosomes on random and `programmed' errors in gene expression as well as on some other subcellular processes. We recall a puzzling empirical result on the single-lane traffic of predatory ants {\it Leptogenys processionalis} as well as recent attempts to account for this puzzle. We also mention some surprising effects of lane-changing rules observed in a ASEP-based model for 3-lane traffic of army ants. Finally, we explain the conceptual similarities between the pheromone-mediated indirect communication, called stigmergy, between ants on a trail and the floor-field-mediated interaction between humans in a pedestrian traffic. For the floor-field model of human pedestrian traffic we present a major theoretical result that is relevant from the perspective of all types of traffic phenomena.


---
# Stochastic Reconstruction of Gappy Lagrangian Turbulent Signals by Conditional Diffusion Models

## 通过条件扩散模型对Gappy拉格朗日湍流信号进行随机重建

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23971

arXiv:2410.23971v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: We present a stochastic method for reconstructing missing spatial and velocity data along the trajectories of small objects passively advected by turbulent flows with a wide range of temporal or spatial scales, such as small balloons in the atmosphere or drifters in the ocean. Our approach makes use of conditional generative diffusion models, a recently proposed data-driven machine learning technique. We solve the problem for two paradigmatic open problems, the case of 3D tracers in homogeneous and isotropic turbulence, and 2D trajectories from the NOAA-funded Global Drifter Program. We show that for both cases, our method is able to reconstruct velocity signals retaining non-trivial scale-by-scale properties that are highly non-Gaussian and intermittent. A key feature of our method is its flexibility in dealing with the location and shape of data gaps, as well as its ability to naturally exploit correlations between different components, leading to superior accuracy, with respect to Gaussian process regressions, for both pointwise reconstruction and statistical expressivity. Our method shows promising applications also to a wide range of other Lagrangian problems, including multi-particle dispersion in turbulence, dynamics of charged particles in astrophysics and plasma physics, and pedestrian dynamics.


---
# Impact of normal lung volume choices on radiation pneumonitis risk prediction in locally advanced NSCLC radiotherapy

## 正常肺容量选择对局部晚期NSCLC放疗放射性肺炎风险预测的影响

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24120

arXiv:2410.24120v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: This study is to evaluate the impact of different normal lung volumes on radiation pneumonitis (RP) prediction in patients with locally advanced non-small-cell-lung-cancer (LA-NSCLC) receiving radiotherapy. Three dosimetric variables (V20, V5, and mean lung dose (MLD)) were calculated using treatment plans from 442 patients with LA-NSCLC enrolled in NRG Oncology RTOG 0617. Three lung volumes were defined based on the treatment plan: total lung excluding gross-tumor-target (TL-GTV), total lung excluding clinical-target-volume (TL-CTV), and total lung excluding planning-target-volume (TL-PTV). Binary classification was used for clinical endpoints: no-RP2 (N = 377) for patients with acute RP grades 0 or 1, and RP2 (N = 65) for patients with acute grades 2 or higher. The impact of lung volume definition on RP prediction was investigated with statistical analyses and two supervised machine learning (ML) models: logistic regression (LR) and random forest (RF). Balanced data was generated for comparison to prediction obtained with the imbalanced data. Areas under curve (AUCs) and the Shapley Additive eXplanations (SHAP) were used to examine ML performance and explain the contribution of each feature to the prediction, respectively. Statistical analyses revealed that V20 and MLD were associated with RP but no difference among different lung volume definitions. Mean AUC values from 10-fold cross validation using imbalanced and balanced datasets were < 0.6 except that RF from the latter dataset yielded AUC values > 0.7. SHAP values indicated that MLD and V20 were the most prominent features in RP prediction. In all assessments, no difference among various volume definitions was found. Different lung volumes showed insignificant impact on RP prediction. Low AUC values suggest limited effectiveness of these dosimetric variables in predicting RP risk and more powerful predictors are needed.


---
# Multi-parameter optimal control of F1-ATPase

## F1-ATPase的多参数最优控制

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24122

arXiv:2410.24122v1 Announce Type: new 
Abstract: Biological molecular machines convert free energy between different forms in cells, often at high efficiency. Optimal control theory provides a framework to elucidate design principles governing energetically efficient driving. Here, we use linear-response theory to design efficient protocols exercising dynamic control of trap center and stiffness in a model of driven F1-ATPase. We find that the key design principles of an efficient protocol can be satisfied either by dynamic control of both parameters, or by dynamic control of a single parameter and a good static choice for the second. These results illustrate that accessing a new degree of dynamic control provides varying performance improvements in different systems.


---
# Variable Resolution Sampling and Deep Learning Image Recovery for Accelerated Multi-Spectral MRI Near Metal Implants

## 金属植入物附近加速多光谱MRI的可变分辨率采样和深度学习图像恢复

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23329

arXiv:2410.23329v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Purpose: This study presents a variable resolution (VR) sampling and deep learning reconstruction approach for multi-spectral MRI near metal implants, aiming to reduce scan times while maintaining image quality. Background: The rising use of metal implants has increased MRI scans affected by metal artifacts. Multi-spectral imaging (MSI) reduces these artifacts but sacrifices acquisition efficiency. Methods: This retrospective study on 1.5T MSI knee and hip data from patients with metal hardware used a novel spectral undersampling scheme to improve acquisition efficiency by ~40%. U-Net-based deep learning models were trained for reconstruction. Image quality was evaluated using SSIM, PSNR, and RESI metrics. Results: Deep learning reconstructions of undersampled VR data (DL-VR) showed significantly higher SSIM and PSNR values (p<0.001) compared to conventional reconstruction (CR-VR), with improved edge sharpness. Edge sharpness in DL-reconstructed images matched fully sampled references (p=0.5). Conclusion: This approach can potentially enhance MRI examinations near metal implants by reducing scan times or enabling higher resolution. Further prospective studies are needed to assess clinical value.


---
# Plug-and-play superiorization

## 即插即用优势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23401

arXiv:2410.23401v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The superiorization methodology (SM) is an optimization heuristic in which an iterative algorithm, which aims to solve a particular problem, is ``superiorized'' to promote solutions that are improved with respect to some secondary criterion. This superiorization is achieved by perturbing iterates of the algorithm in nonascending directions of a prescribed function that penalizes undesirable characteristics in the solution; the solution produced by the superiorized algorithm should therefore be improved with respect to the value of this function. In this paper, we broaden the SM to allow for the perturbations to be introduced by an arbitrary procedure instead, using a plug-and-play approach. This allows for operations such as image denoisers or deep neural networks, which have applications to a broad class of problems, to be incorporated within the superiorization methodology. As proof of concept, we perform numerical simulations involving low-dose and sparse-view computed tomography image reconstruction, comparing the plug-and-play approach to a conventionally superiorized algorithm, as well as a post-processing approach. The plug-and-play approach provides comparable or better image quality in most cases, while also providing advantages in terms of computing time, and data fidelity of the solutions.


---
# Projected Neural Differential Equations for Learning Constrained Dynamics

## 用于学习约束动力学的投影神经微分方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23667

arXiv:2410.23667v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Neural differential equations offer a powerful approach for learning dynamics from data. However, they do not impose known constraints that should be obeyed by the learned model. It is well-known that enforcing constraints in surrogate models can enhance their generalizability and numerical stability. In this paper, we introduce projected neural differential equations (PNDEs), a new method for constraining neural differential equations based on projection of the learned vector field to the tangent space of the constraint manifold. In tests on several challenging examples, including chaotic dynamical systems and state-of-the-art power grid models, PNDEs outperform existing methods while requiring fewer hyperparameters. The proposed approach demonstrates significant potential for enhancing the modeling of constrained dynamical systems, particularly in complex domains where accuracy and reliability are essential.


---
# Neural Network Matrix Product Operator: A Multi-Dimensionally Integrable Machine Learning Potential

## 神经网络矩阵乘积算子: 一种多维可积的机器学习势

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23858

arXiv:2410.23858v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: A neural network-based machine learning potential energy surface (PES) expressed in a matrix product operator (NN-MPO) is proposed. The MPO form enables efficient evaluation of high-dimensional integrals that arise in solving the time-dependent and time-independent Schr\"odinger equation and effectively overcomes the so-called curse of dimensionality. This starkly contrasts with other neural network-based machine learning PES methods, such as multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs), where evaluating high-dimensional integrals is not straightforward due to the fully connected topology in their backbone architecture. Nevertheless, the NN-MPO retains the high representational capacity of neural networks. NN-MPO can achieve spectroscopic accuracy with a test mean absolute error (MAE) of 3.03 cm$^{-1}$ for a fully coupled six-dimensional ab initio PES, using only 625 training points distributed across a 0 to 17,000 cm$^{-1}$ energy range. Our Python implementation is available at https://github.com/KenHino/Pompon.


---
# Learning Macroscopic Dynamics from Partial Microscopic Observations

## 从部分微观观察中学习宏观动力学

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23938

arXiv:2410.23938v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Macroscopic observables of a system are of keen interest in real applications such as the design of novel materials. Current methods rely on microscopic trajectory simulations, where the forces on all microscopic coordinates need to be computed or measured. However, this can be computationally prohibitive for realistic systems. In this paper, we propose a method to learn macroscopic dynamics requiring only force computations on a subset of the microscopic coordinates. Our method relies on a sparsity assumption: the force on each microscopic coordinate relies only on a small number of other coordinates. The main idea of our approach is to map the training procedure on the macroscopic coordinates back to the microscopic coordinates, on which partial force computations can be used as stochastic estimation to update model parameters. We provide a theoretical justification of this under suitable conditions. We demonstrate the accuracy, force computation efficiency, and robustness of our method on learning macroscopic closure models from a variety of microscopic systems, including those modeled by partial differential equations or molecular dynamics simulations.


---
# A Priori Uncertainty Quantification of Reacting Turbulence Closure Models using Bayesian Neural Networks

## 使用贝叶斯神经网络对反应湍流闭合模型进行先验不确定性量化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.18729

arXiv:2402.18729v3 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: While many physics-based closure model forms have been posited for the sub-filter scale (SFS) in large eddy simulation (LES), vast amounts of data available from direct numerical simulation (DNS) create opportunities to leverage data-driven modeling techniques. Albeit flexible, data-driven models still depend on the dataset and the functional form of the model chosen. Increased adoption of such models requires reliable uncertainty estimates both in the data-informed and out-of-distribution regimes. In this work, we employ Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) to capture both epistemic and aleatoric uncertainties in a reacting flow model. In particular, we model the filtered progress variable scalar dissipation rate which plays a key role in the dynamics of turbulent premixed flames. We demonstrate that BNN models can provide unique insights about the structure of uncertainty of the data-driven closure models. We also propose a method for the incorporation of out-of-distribution information in a BNN. The efficacy of the model is demonstrated by a priori evaluation on a dataset consisting of a variety of flame conditions and fuels.


---
# Ab Initio Structure Solutions from Nanocrystalline Powder Diffraction Data

## 来自纳米晶粉末衍射数据的从头算结构解

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10796

arXiv:2406.10796v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: A major challenge in materials science is the determination of the structure of nanometer sized objects. Here we present a novel approach that uses a generative machine learning model based on diffusion processes that is trained on 45,229 known structures. The model factors both the measured diffraction pattern as well as relevant statistical priors on the unit cell of atomic cluster structures. Conditioned only on the chemical formula and the information-scarce finite-size broadened powder diffraction pattern, we find that our model, PXRDnet, can successfully solve simulated nanocrystals as small as 10 angstroms across 200 materials of varying symmetry and complexity, including structures from all seven crystal systems. We show that our model can successfully and verifiably determine structural candidates four out of five times, with average error among these candidates being only 7% (as measured by post-Rietveld refinement R-factor). Furthermore, PXRDnet is capable of solving structures from noisy diffraction patterns gathered in real-world experiments. We suggest that data driven approaches, bootstrapped from theoretical simulation, will ultimately provide a path towards determining the structure of previously unsolved nano-materials.


---
# Optical Diffusion Models for Image Generation

## 用于图像生成的光学扩散模型

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10897

arXiv:2407.10897v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Diffusion models generate new samples by progressively decreasing the noise from the initially provided random distribution. This inference procedure generally utilizes a trained neural network numerous times to obtain the final output, creating significant latency and energy consumption on digital electronic hardware such as GPUs. In this study, we demonstrate that the propagation of a light beam through a semi-transparent medium can be programmed to implement a denoising diffusion model on image samples. This framework projects noisy image patterns through passive diffractive optical layers, which collectively only transmit the predicted noise term in the image. The optical transparent layers, which are trained with an online training approach, backpropagating the error to the analytical model of the system, are passive and kept the same across different steps of denoising. Hence this method enables high-speed image generation with minimal power consumption, benefiting from the bandwidth and energy efficiency of optical information processing.


---
# Neural Pfaffians: Solving Many Many-Electron Schr\"odinger Equations

## 神经Pfaffians: 求解许多多电子Schr \ “odinger方程

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14762

arXiv:2405.14762v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Neural wave functions accomplished unprecedented accuracies in approximating the ground state of many-electron systems, though at a high computational cost. Recent works proposed amortizing the cost by learning generalized wave functions across different structures and compounds instead of solving each problem independently. Enforcing the permutation antisymmetry of electrons in such generalized neural wave functions remained challenging as existing methods require discrete orbital selection via non-learnable hand-crafted algorithms. This work tackles the problem by defining overparametrized, fully learnable neural wave functions suitable for generalization across molecules. We achieve this by relying on Pfaffians rather than Slater determinants. The Pfaffian allows us to enforce the antisymmetry on arbitrary electronic systems without any constraint on electronic spin configurations or molecular structure. Our empirical evaluation finds that a single neural Pfaffian calculates the ground state and ionization energies with chemical accuracy across various systems. On the TinyMol dataset, we outperform the `gold-standard' CCSD(T) CBS reference energies by 1.9m$E_h$ and reduce energy errors compared to previous generalized neural wave functions by up to an order of magnitude.


---
# Physics-Regularized Multi-Modal Image Assimilation for Brain Tumor Localization

## 用于脑肿瘤定位的物理正则化多模态图像同化

Link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.20409

arXiv:2409.20409v3 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: Physical models in the form of partial differential equations serve as important priors for many under-constrained problems. One such application is tumor treatment planning, which relies on accurately estimating the spatial distribution of tumor cells within a patient's anatomy. While medical imaging can detect the bulk of a tumor, it cannot capture the full extent of its spread, as low-concentration tumor cells often remain undetectable, particularly in glioblastoma, the most common primary brain tumor. Machine learning approaches struggle to estimate the complete tumor cell distribution due to a lack of appropriate training data. Consequently, most existing methods rely on physics-based simulations to generate anatomically and physiologically plausible estimations. However, these approaches face challenges with complex and unknown initial conditions and are constrained by overly rigid physical models. In this work, we introduce a novel method that integrates data-driven and physics-based cost functions, akin to Physics-Informed Neural Networks (PINNs). However, our approach parametrizes the solution directly on a dynamic discrete mesh, allowing for the effective modeling of complex biomechanical behaviors. Specifically, we propose a unique discretization scheme that quantifies how well the learned spatiotemporal distributions of tumor and brain tissues adhere to their respective growth and elasticity equations. This quantification acts as a regularization term, offering greater flexibility and improved integration of patient data compared to existing models. We demonstrate enhanced coverage of tumor recurrence areas using real-world data from a patient cohort, highlighting the potential of our method to improve model-driven treatment planning for glioblastoma in clinical practice.


---
# Neural Network-Based Interatomic Potential for the Study of Thermal and Mechanical Properties of Siliceous Zeolites

## 基于神经网络的原子间势用于研究硅质沸石的热和机械性能

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-np8wf-v2?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Molecular dynamics simulations of zeolites are commonly employed for the characterization of their framework dynamics and response to the application of temperature and pressure. While classical interatomic potentials are commonly used for this task, they offer a description of the interactions in the system with limited accuracy. Density Functional Theory, meanwhile, is accurate but its high computational expense limits its scalability for large systems or long dynamics. Recent advances in machine learning interatomic potentials, trained on computational data obtained at the quantum chemical level, offer a promising alternative combining high accuracy with computational efficiency. In this study, we developed an MLIP specifically for pure silica zeolites, trained on data from high- temperature ab initio MD simulations across various zeolitic topologies. This MLIP was then applied to predict structural properties, thermal expansion, and pressure response of different zeolites, demonstrating its potential for accurate and generalizable in simulations of topologies beyond its initial training set.


---
# Active learning meets metadynamics: Automated workflow for reactive machine learning potentials

## 主动学习符合元动力学: 反应性机器学习潜力的自动化工作流程

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-twmlz?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Atomistic simulations driven by machine learning-based potentials (MLPs) are a cost-effective alternative to ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD). Yet, their broad applicability in reaction modelling remains hindered, in part, by the need for large training datasets that adequately sample the relevant potential energy surface, including high-energy transition state (TS) regions. To optimise dataset generation and extend the use of MLPs for reaction modelling, we present a workflow that combines automated active learning with well-tempered metadynamics, requiring no prior knowledge of TSs. Using data-efficient architectures, such as the linear Atomic Cluster Expansion, we illustrate the performance of this strategy in various organic reactions where the environment is described at different levels, including the SN2 reaction between fluoride and chloromethane in implicit water, the methyl shift of 2,2-dimethylisoindene in the gas phase, and a glycosylation reaction in explicit dichloromethane solution, where competitive pathways exist. The proposed training strategy yields accurate and stable MLPs for all three cases, highlighting its versatility for modelling reactive processes.


---
# Performance Insights for Small Molecule Drug Discovery Models: Data Scaling, Multitasking, and Generalization

## 小分子药物发现模型的性能洞察: 数据缩放、多任务处理和泛化

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-bznm6?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

Predictive models hold considerable promise in enabling the faster discovery of safe, efficacious therapeutics. To better understand and improve the performance of small molecule predictive models, we conducted multiple experiments with deep learning and traditional machine learning approaches, leveraging our large internal datasets as well as publicly available datasets. These experiments included assessing performance on random, temporal, and reverse-temporal data ablation tasks as well as tasks testing model extrapolation to different property spaces. We were able to identify factors that contribute to higher performance of predictive models built using graph neural networks versus traditional methods such as XGboost and random forest. Expanding upon these learnings, we were able to derive a scaling relationship that accounts for 81% of the variance in model performance across different assays and data regimes. This relationship can be used to estimate the performance of models for ADMET (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity) endpoints as well as drug discovery assay data in general. The results provide insights into how to further improve model performance.


---
# AI4Green4Students: Promoting sustainable chemistry in undergraduate laboratories with an electronic lab notebook

## Ai4green4学生: 通过电子实验室笔记本促进本科实验室的可持续化学

Link: https://dx.doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2024-2q6l5?rft_dat=source%3Ddrss

AI4Green is an open-source, machine-learning-powered electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) developed by our research group to help chemists mitigate environmental impacts, particularly within the pharmaceutical sector. This study presents AI4Green4Students, a pedagogically adapted version designed to foster sustainable laboratory practices and encourage the use of digital tools within undergraduate laboratory teaching. The AI4Green4Students ELN includes features for sustainability assessment, data documentation, and analysis, aiming to equip students with skills for modern, sustainable laboratory practices. User feedback, gathered through questionnaires and interviews, informed the initial development and subsequent refinements of the application, enhancing its usability, efficiency, and functionality. Implementation in a Year 3 undergraduate chemistry lab project indicated improved adherence to sustainable practices, suggesting that the ELN supports the integration of sustainable chemistry into laboratory teaching. Future efforts will expand AI4Green4Students to include additional experiments to broaden its applicability across undergraduate chemistry courses, as well as integrate machine learning tools to enhance data analysis capabilities.


---
# Calibration of Soil Contact Parameters for Planting Sand Shrubs in the Desert Regions of Inner Mongolia

## 内蒙古荒漠区沙灌木种植土壤接触参数的标定

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5283536/latest

This study addresses the need for an accurate and reliable&nbsp;discrete element model to understand the interaction between soil particles and planting mechanisms during the operation of watering drilling machines used for cultivating xerophytic shrubs in the desert regions of Inner Mongolia. Focusing on soil from the northwestern desert of Inner Mongolia, we calibrated the parameters pertinent to desert soil. Through Plackett-Burman experiments, we identified key factors that significantly affect the angle of repose. The range of these significant factors was further refined using steepest ascent experiments. Subsequently, a Box-Behnken experiment was conducted to establish a regression model for these significant factors, aiming to identify the optimal combination. We validated this optimal combination through a blend of simulation and physical experiments. The results reveal that the optimal combination of significant factors, determined from the angle of repose as the response variable, includes a static friction coefficient of soil-soil at 0.442, a rolling friction coefficient of soil-soil at 0.140, and a static friction coefficient of soil-steel at 0.305. By using the opening diameter and effective depth of the drilling machine as measurement benchmarks, the relative errors for the simulation and physical experiments were recorded at 2.9&nbsp;% and 0.3&nbsp;%, respectively. These findings affirm the accuracy and reliability of the measured parameters, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for understanding the interaction mechanisms between desert planting machinery and soil.


---
# Deep generalizable prediction of RNA secondary structure via base pair motif energy

## 通过碱基对基序能量对RNA二级结构进行深度泛化预测

Link: https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-5321981/latest

RNA secondary structure plays essential roles in modeling RNA tertiary structure and further exploring the function of non-coding RNAs. Computational methods, especially deep learning methods, have demonstrated great potential and performance for RNA secondary structure prediction. However, the generalizability of deep learning models is a common unsolved issue in the situation of unseen out-of-distribution cases, which hinders the further improvement of accuracy and robustness of deep learning methods. Here we construct a base pair motif library which enumerates the complete space of locally adjacent three-neighbor base pair and records the thermodynamic energy of corresponding base pair motifs through de novo modeling of tertiary structures, and we further develop a deep learning approach for RNA secondary structure prediction, named BPfold, which employs hybrid transformer and convolutional neural network architecture and an elaborately designed base pair attention block to jointly learn representative features and relationship between RNA sequence and the energy map of base pair motif generated from the above motif library. Quantitative and qualitative experiments on sequence-wise datasets and family-wise datasets have demonstrated the great superiority of BPfold compared to other state-of-the-art approaches in both accuracy and generalizability. The significant performance of BPfold will greatly boost the development of deep learning methods for predicting RNA secondary structure and the further discovery of RNA structures and functionalities.

